I would like your advice about Rule 143 concerning inadmissibility . 
My question relates to something that will come up on Thursday and which I will then raise again . 
Mr President , in relation to the Schroedter report , I am aware , and have had it confirmed to me by Mr Barnier , that the rules on additionality concerning Structural Funds apply only at the level of Member States and do not apply in a transitive and transparent way inside Member States in favour of self-governing regions such as Wales or Scotland . 
I regard that as a very unsatisfactory state of affairs . 
I hope we can revisit this issue at a later time . 
I want it to be clear that though I voted in favour of the report , I have this important reservation . 
I object to the fact that we are cutting back the time for Question Time ; it is one of the few occasions when backbenchers have a chance to get their time on the floor and I do ask you to extend it to one and a half hours as is on the agenda . 
That is the agenda and I think that we should stick to the agenda . 
Amsterdam and Tampere have given us much work to do together , as the excellent draft resolution by Mrs Terrón today shows . 
The first is that we need a mature dialogue between the Council and the European Parliament . 
It is barely six months since Amsterdam imposed a duty on our two organisations to work together ; we have been sizing each other up , we have had a few minor spats , but we need to work effectively together . 
Involve us please in your discussions on both policy and process . 
Let us not pretend that national parliaments are able to exercise effective democratic control of government activities in this area . 
My second point is that we need a properly resourced Commission . 
We have established a new Directorate-General , yet it has only 70 people all told . 
There is an agreement to double this number , but I understand that , so far , not a single new person has arrived . 
We are setting the Commission a massive task , not least in the drawing up of the scoreboard . 
The Council and Parliament must work together to provide the resources that the Commission needs . 
Finally , on the content of the debate , I welcome the fact that the presidency has put the area of freedom , security and justice at the top of its agenda . 
All good things come in threes , especially in our policy area . 
Two hundred years ago it was liberty , equality and fraternity , and things went along very well until the governments of the left raised equality above the others . 
Now it is freedom , security and justice , and I hope that the current governments of the left will heed the words of Commissioner Vitorino and resist the temptation to elevate security , important as it is , above the equally important needs of freedom and justice . 
This has been given inadequate attention and there are many things to be concerned about . 
May I particularly draw attention to one of the implications of enlargement in respect of this Parliament . 
A ceiling of 700 has been prescribed as the maximum that Parliament can safely become and remain a deliberative assembly . 
Now what is going to happen if we retain a ceiling of 700 , bring in 26 % more population over time , and then adopt the Commission ' s , I think ill-considered , proposition , that there should be a European list of candidates . 
What will happen to a place like Scotland , which I represent here ? 
It will become totally invisible ! 
Members of this House should not in these circumstances be in the least surprised that in these discussions , people in Scotland and other such countries are asking whether enlargement should not also take the form of admitting new Member States from within existing ones . 
A growing body of opinion in Scotland holds that view . 
Mr President it is later than any of us thought it would be when we were planning for this session so I shall be very brief indeed . 
One of the reasons why we are late is because we spent time earlier today rightly stating the rooted opposition of this Parliament to any form of xenophobia or racism . 
This directive is , of course , not in itself directly about that . 
It is about attending to the needs of the internal market , creating flexibility and behaving in a reasonable and flexible way to enable the employment of third country persons both as employees and self-employed . 
That is in itself also about avoiding being unduly restrictive towards the stranger simply because he or she is a stranger . 
We welcome that , and because we think it makes a sensible and proper provision , we will support the most liberal version which we understand to be consistent with the law . 
Madam President , to follow on from the point that Mr Lannoye made : Mrs Lucas was arrested just outside Glasgow for protesting against the Trident base at Faslane . 
I was very glad to learn last week that the Commission is giving close attention over a number of years to the concept of subsidiarity and its reference , not merely to relations between the Union and Member States , but also the Union , the Member States , regions and cities . 
I hope that in his pursuit of dialogue around the regions of Europe , Commissioner Barnier will expand upon that thought and learn from what he hears . 
Mr President , I have had the privilege of hearing the Commissioner a number of times on this issue and I very much agree with his approach . 
However , I should like to ask a slightly different question . 
We have just heard Commissioner Barnier say that he is anxious to communicate better with the people and to aim the information policy of the Commission towards the major issues that the Community is dealing with this year . 
Would the Commissioner argue for some of the information budget of the Commission to be put towards informing and consulting the citizens on this issue of a Citizens Charter ? 
It is very important that the people feel engaged in this process . 
I know that the Convention itself will do much in this area but it does not have the resources that the Commission has . 
Will the Commission look at using its information budget to ensure people are engaged in this debate ? 
Will the Commission consider issuing instructions to all Member States saying that , if in future it discovers that European environmental directives have been breached or proper environmental assessment has not been carried out , it will not only stop future funding but will withdraw the funding already granted , in other words , reclaim the money from the Member States ? 
It is only such action which will discourage this practice in the future . 
- I am grateful for a clear answer though naturally a little disappointed by its content . 
We are left with Article 11 ( 1 ) which says that the appropriations of the funds may not replace public or other equivalent structural expenditure by the Member States . 
Very well : that is to be the unchanging rule . 
Does section 11 ( 1 ) conceivably authorise the following practice . 
When an autonomous region 's or country 's funding from European structural funds increases , the state makes a concomitant reduction in central funding to that region , so that the total funding package available matches a formula set nationally without regard to the quantum of structural funds granted by the Union . 
Is that really authorised ? 
Commissioner , do you have any reason , on public health grounds , for a difference in the taxation rates on , for example , Scotch whisky or French Bordeaux wine or even my colleague 's Bavarian beer ? 
Can you envisage applying an alcohol - equivalent basis for taxation in Europe ? 
My question would have been almost exactly the one raised by Mr Purvis , but I would like to press the point further . 
Granted , as you say , that excise duties lie within the prerogative of Member States , nevertheless the use of that prerogative in a way which is unfairly discriminatory against producers in one part of the Community versus others might still conflict with the single market principle . 
For example , if we take what Mr Purvis and I would be thinking of , the malt whisky producing parts of the Highlands - a very peripheral part of Europe , very hard-pressed , a whole farming community as well as a distilling community dependent upon it - a general practice of taxing the alcohol in Scotch whisky , Dutch gin or Danish aquavit more than the alcohol in beer or the alcohol in wine , seems to me to be discriminatory and a discriminatory use of something which is admittedly within the prerogative of the Member States . 
Mr President , I see in the Minutes that two Members spoke yesterday about delayed flights to Strasbourg on Monday . 
I would like to add that the flight from Amsterdam ' s Schipol airport was also delayed and then cancelled . 
We were diverted to Basel-Mulhouse Airport . 
We finally got here , on Monday at 8.30 p.m. , after some of us had spent more than 12 hours travelling . 
This sort of service and difficulty in getting to Strasbourg on a Monday is quite hopeless . 
If the French Government insists that we continue to meet in Strasbourg , it could at least ensure , where flights are diverted to Basle , that buses arrive on time to meet the diverted passengers , otherwise it is quite pointless for us to try to arrive here on Monday and attend to any kind of business . 
I wonder if that could be added to the Minutes . 
Mr President , I was a little disappointed with the answer given by the President-in-Office to my colleague . 
It is very important , if we stress that Europe is to be a Europe of values , that we do not go down the road of saying that means justify ends . 
That , however , is not my question . 
My question is about political prisoners held in Serbia now . 
There are , I believe , around 5 000 Kosovar political prisoners held in Serbia at the moment . 
Secondly , what does it propose to do about them ? 
Mr President , I have the honour of being a member of the Convention drafting the Charter so I am not going to ask the presidency to speculate on the contents or whether it thinks the Convention should be declaratory or whether it should have judicial force . 
What I would like to know is what will happen to the draft Charter that the Convention draws up ? 
Will the Council treat it as a document that it has to accept as it stands , or will the Council feel free to amend that document ? 
Will the Council say just simply yes or no to it or will it be in a position to actually then redraft that draft Charter ? 
I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council , after his few hours working in this Chamber with these Members of the European Parliament , whether he has come to any assessment of what they are worth in terms of pay ? 
I should like you , Madam President , to express to the Council our wish that they be present at such votes in future . 
The package will grant around Euro 15 million in total for the two countries in the current year . 
It is , however , regrettable that the Commission has eschewed multiannual financing and decided instead to allocate funds on a yearly basis . 
This is bound to have an impact on the ability of Malta and Cyprus to plan spending . 
The funding will provide technical and financial support to enable the two islands to meet the requirements of the Community ` acquis ' . 
Given the already advanced state of these two countries , compared to other applicants , this should easily allow them to be ` technically and administratively ' ready for membership at the end of the 5-year programme . 
When the notes and coins come into circulation after 1 January 2002 , everything possible must be done to ensure maximum confidence in the Euro . 
Madam President , I welcome Mr Corrie ' s report as a balanced assessment of the work the Assembly has carried out over the last year . 
The report comes just after agreement has been reached on the renewal of the existing Lomé Convention , which expires at the end of this month . 
The decision to include a clause obliging ACP countries to take back illegal immigrants entering Europe is worrying and will have to be implemented with extreme sensitivity . 
I hope that before the end of this new Lomé Convention we will be able to welcome Cuba as a full member . 
First of all I should like to thank Mr Viceconte for all the work that he has done on this report . 
Tourism is basically small businesses and therefore a very fertile area for job creation . 
As has already been said in this debate , three million potential new jobs within the next ten years is something well worth going for . 
Europe can no longer refuse to give the recognition - both political and in terms of policy-making - that the fastest growing sector of its economy deserves because of its economic and social position . 
We need a more dynamic vision based on tourism ' s contribution to job creation . 
We must recognise a sector that is predominantly engaged in cross-border activity and therefore deserves a European policy with a stimulating , innovative and proactive approach to sustainable business development . 
But his portfolio of information technology and tourism actually go very well together . 
There are several reasons why the tourism industry is an ideal test-bed , therefore , for integrating job creation strategies . 
Let us look at some of these reasons . 
The importance to the economy of tourism and its growth potential is obviously one . 
Various sectors of the population are employed by the tourism industry , particularly the more vulnerable groups , such as young people , women and the unskilled . 
I am not saying that we do not need to raise the skills within the sector - of course we do - but let us get the jobs established first . 
The availability of unskilled , temporary and seasonal work is very important in some of the economic areas of the Community . 
Tourism contributes to regional development - in rural areas that are maybe trying to diversify - and tourism contributes to urban areas that aim to raise the profile of their own cultural heritage . 
If we take all these aspects together we have the potential of really doing something in Europe and maybe extending the tourism season by staggering holidays right across Europe . 
We must not lose sight of the fact that with enlargement we have the potential to increase the number of visitors who come to Europe ' s shores to see some of the traditional cultural heritage that has not been opened up to the world for quite a number of years - in fact , about forty years . 
I hope you will help us . 
Mr President , there is a mystery . 
What happened to the Postal Services Directive that was passed on 15 December 1997 ? 
There has been a deafening silence from the Commission during the period between then and now . 
I am sorry it is Commissioner Monti who is here today . 
It is a pity I can not say the same for some of his other colleagues . 
There has , over this period , been no real progress on the Postal Services Directive . 
However , since Commissioner Monti is here , I would like him to take a message back to Commissioner Bolkestein telling him what the Postal Services Directive was about . 
It was about gradual liberalisation ; it was about a guaranteed universal service at an affordable price ; it was about direct mail and cross-border mail remaining in the reserved sector . 
These issues were fundamental in that report and they should be fundamental in any forthcoming directive . 
The postal service is also the bus service . 
The postal service is also the social service . 
We will cut them off . 
The postal services are important . 
Mr President , postal services and post offices seem to be very topical in Parliament at the moment and rightly so , given their importance . 
Only last week , in the UK parliament at Westminster the newly-elected MP from our European Free Alliance partners , Plaid Cymru , the party of Wales , made his maiden speech on that subject . 
The Scottish parliament too recently had a debate with particular reference to the role which post offices , especially in rural areas , play in service provision and the sustainability of rural communities . 
Liberalisation is not the only potential threat to post office services . 
Post office outlets in Scotland , as we have heard , handle much more than just mail delivery . 
If a rural post office closes , usually with the only local shop attached , then a major threat to community sustainability and to social inclusion can result . 
Instead of allowing post office outlets to be undermined by liberalisation or by the modernisation of systems , governments , and the Commission too , should be encouraging and supporting the extensive network of post office outlets and viewing these as an asset which can be built upon , providing public information and services from a location which is convenient for residents . 
Mr President , I rise as other Scottish Members of this House , representatives of Scotland , to protest against anything that lead to a decline in the quality of rural life in remote parts . 
The postal service and the post office are a vital feature of life in rural communities throughout Europe and not least in Scotland . 
It would be a disaster if action were deliberately , or even inadvertently , taken which had the effect of damaging that . 
But they might accidentally do great damage . 
The point is to determine at what speed and by what methods the gradual liberalisation of the postal services should take place . 
If too low a limit were set for the continuing monopoly right of the postal service , it would become uneconomical to maintain in the outlying areas universality of service at what would remain an affordable rate . 
The critical thing is to balance universality and affordability . 
The solidarity and cohesion of people all over Europe depend on the thought that you can post a letter anywhere and it will be delivered anywhere else , at an affordable stamp price . 
Stand by universality and affordability ! 
It is particularly appropriate that Mr Monti is responding to this debate because the great conundrum with postal services is how to square an open market and free and fair competition with providing a service which is universally available to all , even in the remotest and least inhabited region of the European Union . 
In the hills and glens of Scotland and the rural borders and central belt , on the beautiful but fragile islands of the Hebrides , Orkney and Shetland , there is real concern at possibly losing this essential service . 
Yet we all know that service quality can only improve if postal services , like all service industries , are given the financial and management freedom of the private sector and the spur of open , even international , competition . 
Let us call this a negative tender franchise . 
This permits desirable competition in providing these services under a publicly-supported but fully transparent franchise system . 
Why could not mail collection and delivery in a certain region be put to negative tender in this manner ? 
The lowest subsidy would win the franchise for a certain period of time . 
Why could not the sub-post office in a remote village also be put out to this sort of negative tender ? 
It would therefore be up to the appropriate democratically accountable government body , local , regional or national - probably under overall EU supervision - to set the service criteria and the financial resources for meeting this particular social purpose . 
Otherwise the postal services can be left to all the demands and constraints of the marketplace . 
Infectious salmon anaemia is a contagious viral disease which was first recorded in Norway in 1984 , then in Canada in 1986 and first found in European Union territory in May 1998 in Scotland . 
Although the virus has been found in other species , the disease itself is so far confined to salmon . 
The virus is known not to survive above 25o Celsius and scientists have therefore agreed that no threat to human health exists ; it simply can not survive in warm-blooded creatures . 
The Scottish salmon-farming industry is the biggest in the EU , spread throughout some of Europe ' s most peripheral communities . 
It sustains some 6 500 jobs and generates around EUR 800 million annually . 
It is obvious therefore that this issue is especially important to Scotland but it is vitally important to all parts of Europe that the disease be brought under control and , if possible , eradicated . 
The proposed changes are twofold : the first would permit the use of vaccination as a weapon in this battle . 
This is a necessary change and should be accompanied by a commitment at European level to instigate and fund research into developing an effective vaccine . 
The second proposed change would permit a phased withdrawal of fish from affected farms , working to a plan based on the severity of the problem in any particular farm . 
This approach has been used very effectively in Norway where new reports of ISA are down to a handful of cases a year having peaked at some 80-90 cases per year in the early 1990s . 
I therefore support the Commission ' s proposed changes and I am calling for their urgent adoption and implementation . 
I also highlight the issue of compensation and call for the amendment of Council Decision 90/424/EEC by specifically including ISA in its appended list of diseases , thereby enabling compensation to be paid at 50 % Commission , 50 % Member State . 
I thank colleagues in the Fisheries Committee for their overwhelming vote in support of my report and I in particular thank my Scottish colleagues in the committee for their input to this whole process . 
I am opposing Amendments 7 to 13 which were decisively rejected by the Fisheries Committee . 
Most of their content is either unnecessary or already referred to in my text . 
In particular , I have drawn attention to the need to study the extent and effect of interaction between farmed and wild salmon , the need to investigate the source of ISA and the need to test more widely for the virus in wild stocks . 
These amendments by the Green component of the Greens/European Free Alliance Group are designed to provide justification for Amendment 13 . 
This amendment is completely unacceptable and inappropriate as it seeks not only to retain the requirement for immediate compulsory slaughter of all fish but also to prevent any fish , whether diseased or not , from an affected farm from being sold and I must emphasise that under current policy no diseased fish are sold . 
There is no proposal to change that and under the proposed new regime there is no question of diseased fish being sold . 
Amendments 7 to 13 simply fail to take account of the reality as evidenced by the starkly contrasting statistics from Scotland and from Norway . 
In Scotland we have endured a draconian regime which has failed to achieve its objective . 
In Norway , with their much longer experience , compulsory , 100 % culling was abandoned some years ago and a range of measures have led there to a dramatically improved situation . 
It is in all of our interests to ensure that in Scotland too we contain ISA and prevent its further spread . 
Last week saw the publication in Scotland of a report by a joint government and industry working group on ISA . 
This comprehensive document takes account of a wide range of possible risks and recommends action to combat them in areas such as site-to-site transmission , security measures to curtail escapes , treatment of waste and effluent , methods of detection and diagnosis , farrowing and rotation , disinfection of equipment and many , many more . 
Some can and will be implemented immediately by local authorities using existing powers , others will be incorporated into codes of practice . 
All will be beneficial , not just in relation to ISA but in achieving better standards in aquaculture generally where required . 
Your votes , colleagues , in favour of my report in full , as endorsed by the Fisheries Committee , will be a very important part of a wider ISA control package based on the reality of Scotland ' s situation and the lessons learned from the success of others . 
I congratulate Mr Hudghton and fully support his report and would urge the honourable Members of Parliament to do likewise . 
As he said , fish farming is a critically significant source of employment in remote parts of rural Scotland and at a time when the rural areas of Scotland are suffering their worst recession in over a hundred years , the aquaculture industry provides an essential boost to the rural economy on which many thousands of direct and indirect jobs depend . 
Now , as he said , in excess of 85 000 tons of Salmon is now produced in Scottish fish farms in an industry which generates more than EUR 800 million annually . 
Regrettably , although ISA was first detected in Scotland only two years ago , it has now spread to 29 farms directly and around 240 other farms are affected in some way or another . 
Wild salmon , trout and eels have been found to carry the virus which now seems to be endemic even in the wider marine environment . 
So this report , Mr President , provides an encouraging range of proposals for improving the way in which the authorities in the UK and elsewhere should respond to the disease . 
By recommending the introduction of a method of containment and gradual culling , similar to the system used successfully in Norway , the rapporteur seeks to introduce a more flexible approach to the disease which will provide confidence , not least to the insurance sector who have hitherto shied clear of providing any form of cover due to the insistence on a policy of compulsory slaughter . 
By recommending the research , development and ultimate use of vaccination to control and eradicate ISA , the rapporteur also provides comfort to the pharmaceutical industry who have hitherto had no incentive to invest in the development of a vaccine . 
So I thoroughly recommend and hope that the Parliament will support this excellent report . 
The Erika oil spill is one of a catalogue of disasters that have taken place in recent years in Community waters , including the Braer spill off Shetland and the Sea Empress off Wales . 
These spills , in addition to causing irreparable ecological damage , have devastated local industries . 
In the case of the Erika , the local fishing and aquaculture industries have suffered a bitter blow and it is important not just to look at the harmful effects that are apparent today but also to look ahead at the long-term detrimental effects of oil pollution . 
Effective compensation is essential . 
It is time that shipping safety within the Community was tightened up and that greater controls were introduced , including bringing an end to the use of flags of convenience which is also increasingly resorted to in the fisheries sector . 
The companies responsible , the ship and the cargo owners must pay up for their negligence . 
We must learn from past experience and make sure that the industries affected by the Braer spill can be rebuilt . 
Mr President , I must object in the strongest possible terms to the proposal , within this legislative programme , to reduce the agricultural budget by EUR 300 million for the purpose of rebuilding Kosovo . 
While I have every sympathy with the need to rebuild Kosovo , and while I understand fully that the CAP accounts for almost half of the entire expenditure of the EU , I nevertheless object to the agricultural budget being regarded as a well from which water can be drawn each time another department develops a thirst . 
I know a guarantee has been given that the removal of this sum from the budget will not affect any of the financial obligations entered into by the Commission within the framework of the CAP , but I just do not believe it . 
I do not accept that this will simply be a one-off event . 
When farmers in my own constituency of Scotland are suffering their worst recession in more than 100 years , how can I explain to them that this EUR 300 million would be better off spent on Kosovo ? 
We should be spending more to alleviate this crisis rather than contemplating spending less . 
I urge honourable Members , when we come to vote on this issue , to vote against this proposal . 
Mr President , I should like to express my substantial agreement with the point just made by Mr Napolitano . 
It is , when you think of it , odd to suppose that great institutions of this kind could be thought capable of existing without some constitution . 
Manifestly we do exist and therefore manifestly we already have some kind of a constitution . 
The question is : do we have an adequate constitution and what kind of constitution do we want ? 
To say we need a constitution is not to say that the European Union should have the constitution of a state , for the Union is not a state and is not about to become one . 
We all therefore agree that there should be proper recognition of rights within the Union and that this should be binding on the organs and institutions of the Union . 
The EU organs and institutions can exercise far too much power to permit them that power without the proper control which a Charter of Rights would imply . 
If we create a Charter of Rights that overloads the Court of Justice , that has everybody beating a path every week to Luxembourg , we will destroy the purpose . 
We must ensure that the main avenue for protecting rights is in the national courts and in a supervisory jurisdiction as exercised at European level . 
If we do not succeed in that , we will fail in everything . 
Mr President , why do we need such a Charter ? 
It clearly is not , as Mr Berthu has said , in order to create a European super-state but more , as Mrs Berès has said , to make it clear to today 's citizens and tomorrow 's citizens that what we are in now is a Community of values : values based on democracy , freedom , equality , solidarity and respect for diversity , values - and I stress this to Mrs Garaud - that unite Europeans across frontiers , from the north , the south , the east and the west of the Community . 
The big question is not whether we need such a Charter but what status it should have . 
Some have argued that the Charter should simply gather together in a readable form all the rights that currently exist within the European Union . 
I believe we have a team of 60 politicians working on the Convention because it is our duty to identify gaps in existing rights , to identify weaknesses in existing structures and to show the political will to correct those weaknesses . 
So the Charter must fill in any gaps in existing rights , and it must be binding on the institutions of the European Union . 
There needs to be a list of rights which will be directly upheld by the courts , but there also needs to be another list of general rights which the Community institutions and others will have to take into account when drafting policies ; some in the Court , some simply as background forming a valuable basis when we are taking other decisions . 
What is clear , and what unites most people in this Chamber who want such a Charter , is that it must be in the Treaties . 
If it is to impact on the citizen it must appear in the Treaties of the European Union . 
Mr President , firstly I would like to welcome the Commission 's approach in general to the IGC . 
The fact that we are getting this rolling presentation of more detailed explanations of issues is very helpful . 
Secondly , I agree with the Commission that this is indeed an extremely delicate issue . 
Taxation and social security get to what Mrs Thatcher used to call the nooks and crannies of everyday life . 
It is something that affects Member States and their people in a very sensitive way and we have to be careful before the Community moves into these fields . 
From what I hear , the Commission has got it more or less right and I would like to put a couple of questions for the sake of clarity . 
What I was not clear about was when he talked about other measures where it was necessary to make the single market work . 
How will that be defined ? 
It sounds fine but how do you define a measure that is essential to make the single market work ? 
That is a matter of intense debate . 
Similarly , the issue of harmonisation against coordination : one man 's coordination can be another 's harmonisation and we need clear definitions of what is coordination and what is harmonisation if this is to work . 
I wish him well in this area because it is an area in which we need a breakthrough . 
But it is not going to be easy to get an agreement and I would like to see the document in detail before passing judgement on what the Commissioner said this afternoon . 
I am pleased to hear the Commissioner 's comments on the Charter . 
I would like to push him to give details about the nature of the campaign . 
Last Wednesday we had a very successful launch of the European information campaign involving Commissioners and Members of the European Parliament . 
I would like the Commissioner to reassure me that , when the campaign is decentralised , information offices in the Member States will involve Members of the European Parliament in the information campaign as a matter of course . 
After all , it is the MEPs who are supposed to represent the citizens . 
We are at least as well-placed as the Commission to engage in that dialogue with the citizens . 
Mr President , the industry committee , after much discussion and serious consideration , is overwhelmingly opposed to the Commission 's proposed ceilings , and this is across all groups and nationalities . 
The UN ECE ceilings were agreed by all our Member States , by the applicant countries and globally , in a protocol signed at Gothenburg as recently as November 1999 . 
Why did the Commission come up with these even stricter and substantially more expensive ceilings only one month later ? 
I understand that the groups , the whole Parliament , are split on this issue , between supporters of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy and supporters of the industry committee 's line . 
Members of Parliament should be aware of the serious implications for our industries and agriculture , for our competitiveness , for jobs and - yes - for people and our constituents if the Commission proposal wins through . 
The industry committee urges this House to vote in favour of the amendments which are tabled in my name and in the name of Mr Bowe . 
These are the amendments passed by the industry committee . 
The UN ceilings are quite ambitious enough for us to reach our internationally agreed targets in reasonable time . 
The industry committee wishes to see these limits fully and properly implemented across the European Union and globally . 
The Commission can then concentrate on ensuring this occurs , on perfecting the models that are used and perhaps come up with new proposals in two or three years ' time on the basis of much more convincing arguments regarding the relevant costs and benefits . 
Support the Purvis amendments and the United Nations Gothenburg table of national emission ceilings . 
Mr President , we are dealing here with amendments to a directive concerning the intra-Community trade in bovine animals and swine . 
I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on his report and agreeing very strongly with the remarks he has just made . 
I suggested a single amendment during the committee stage of the debate , which was accepted by the committee , regarding the need for Member States to put in place a proper system of spot checks , inspections and controls to ensure the efficient implementation of these regulations . 
My amendment calls upon the Commission to monitor the Member States to see that they carry out the necessary inspections set out in these regulations , because if we are to mount a successful campaign to contain and eradicate tuberculosis and brucellosis , then the proper implementation of these regulations will be essential . 
May I also say that , sadly , these regulations are at the present time largely academic in respect of my own Member State because of course we have been banned from exporting live bovine animals from the UK for the past four years . 
Indeed , even the export of dead bovines is still being blocked in certain countries because although the ban on the export of beef from the UK was lifted on 1 August 1999 , it is , as we all know , still being illegally maintained by France and Germany to this very day . 
In the case of the pig sector the export trade is also suffering because during the past two years the pig industry has experienced acute difficulties . 
Indeed in Scotland , my own country , we have witnessed a 25 % reduction in the national herd in the past twelve months . 
Unless urgent action is taken by the UK Government , a further 25 % will go within the next few months . 
Now , this appalling situation has been brought about by a combination of issues involving the strength of sterling , the gold-plating of welfare and hygiene standards , which have been imposed on the industry by the UK Government , and the extra costs arising out of the BSE crisis . 
These factors are driving UK pig farmers out of business as more and more cheap imports are sourced by retailers and supermarkets in the UK . 
Now it transpires that the situation could deteriorate even further as EU applicant countries from Central and Eastern Europe are projected to increase their net exports of pigmeat by nearly 300 % by the year 2006 . 
At the same time they will be seeking derogations from the EU to enable them to produce pork to welfare and hygiene standards that would be considered illegal under current EU law . 
If Britain is once again to reactivate a dynamic intra-Community trade in bovine animals and swine , then immediate help is required to alleviate the catastrophic situation affecting rural Britain and affecting our pig and beef sectors in particular . 
I hope this message is getting through to the British Chancellor of the Exchequer . 
While adding my thanks to the Council for the earlier answer , I would like to press the Council on a related matter . 
The BBC recently produced evidence that ` wombs ' , as they described it , were for sale in Romania - that women were being paid to have children for export to Member States of the European Union . 
Furthermore , the BBC alleged that this was being done with the tacit approval of the Romanian authorities because it was bringing hard currency into Romania . 
Will the Council raise this in their dialogue with Romania in relation to Romania 's application for membership of the Community ? 
Mr President , I should like to make a point of order . 
We ask the appropriate bodies in this House to look again at the way in which we organise our work . 
- British Labour Members fully support a Charter of Fundamental Rights which makes visible citizens ' rights across the EU . 
This decision will be made at a later stage as recognised by the report itself in Paragraph 6 . 
That Paragraph also states that any legally binding status recognises that Fundamental Rights are indivisible by making the Charter applicable to all the European Union 's institutions and bodies and all its policies . 
This is a recognisable aim which British Labour Members would support . 
As the final Charter text is not available , we are supporting the Charter in principle but awaiting the final version . 
This is a complex process which needs clarity and precision at all stages to ensure that the end result is a positive and visible step forward for people in all EU countries . 
Mr President , I should just like to touch on a couple of points that Mr Evans raised . 
I congratulate his party in securing a victory in this by-election . 
I turn to the question at hand . 
I thank the Nationalists for having raised this . 
It is right that we have a proper discussion on the whole question of the Structural Funds . 
But I suspect there is a deeper plot here . 
What are they actually trying to achieve ? 
I would remind people in this Parliament that it was not so long ago that this Parliament passed , by the assent procedure , the rules and regulations governing the Structural Funds , including Article 11 , which defines additionality . 
Is it therefore Parliament 's role now to change that ? 
We should not change that . 
I know that Ms Evans , along with one of her colleagues , Dafydd Wigley and a member of the Scottish Nationalist Party , Mr Wilson , went to meet Commissioner Barnier . 
I should like to read out the statement made by Commissioner Barnier after that meeting : 
I am not surprised that there is a certain amount of confusion among the Nationalists on this . 
Additionality , whether or not EU funds are providing additional impact , compared to what would otherwise have happened , can be used as one of the selection criteria by the local programme planners before they decide to approve aid to individual projects . 
The Commission , on the other hand , is obliged by the rules to make a global assessment of additionality for the UK as a whole , with the specific aim of ensuring that the European financial aid is additional to , and not a substitute for , national finance . 
We have always been satisfied in the past that the national requirements have been met '' . 
President , it is a great pity indeed that Commissioner Barnier has been unable to be present here this morning , because this is a matter within his brief which is causing great concern not only in Scotland and Wales but in other parts of the Union . 
We are further told , however , that all is well , because the additionality rules in the regulation are being carried through properly . 
Yet the Court of Auditors , in the very report that we have been talking about , says the following things : the difficulties encountered are caused by the limited development of the principle in terms of concepts and methodology and the joint failure to find appropriate and effective procedures for verifying it . 
And then two paragraphs later , the identification of the structural assistance interventions in the eligible regions is unreliable , and this leads to the inclusion of a large number of estimates and hypotheses which are difficult to verify . 
` Difficult ' indeed , Sir . 
- Mr President , Tony Blair and Donald Dewar will not have slept well last night ! 
Their worst nightmares have turned out to be reality . 
The Labour Party heartlands of Scotland have sent them an unmistakable message . 
The Scottish Labour voter - for so long taken for granted - has spoken . 
The Scottish Conservative Party candidate in Ayr , John Scott , has humiliated Labour into third place - 5 000 or more votes behind . 
This will only get worse for Labour when the truth about their incompetent and cynical administration of the European Union 's Structural Funds becomes better known and better understood . 
Because of the Labour Government 's tardiness in submitting its proposed maps nine months late in December instead of March last year , it is still struggling to come up with acceptable specific projects . 
Scottish local authorities are left not knowing whether or not the projects which they are having to underwrite will indeed obtain Structural Fund support . 
Commissioner : three questions : 
When do you expect to be able to provide certainty for the Scottish regions and the badly needed projects which are looking for EU support ? 
Are you satisfied with the preparedness of the Scottish Executive to provide the necessary matching funding and to assure you that it is truly additional ? 
Or is it all just the usual Labour/Liberal coalition hot air , all mouth , while feet drag along the cobbled streets of Edinburgh and European money is hijacked by the Treasury in London ? 
Mr President , inevitably Commissioner Liikanen was not in a position other than to reply formally to the debate and say that he had heard what had been said and would pass it on . 
That is not very satisfactory from the point of view of the many Members of this House who made important points . 
I request that Mr Barnier gives a written summary of his response to these points . 
Tomorrow ' s agenda includes the topic of human cloning . 
It is important for Members of the House , as they prepare for that debate , to be aware that the scientists who work behind the research which led to the patent have given a categorical assurance that their project has nothing to do with cloning and it has not at any point been directed in that direction . 
This does not affect any of the central questions in the debate about the conduct of the Patent Office but since it relates to the reputation of individuals I think it fair and proper that this should be noted by Members of the House . 
I should also mention an interest of my own since I am a professor of the University on unpaid leave of absence from that institution which is also involved . 
So we are asking that the vote be postponed to the April part-session and that the deadline for putting down motions under Rule 37 of our Rules be re-opened to allow the committee eventually to table a motion on this issue . 
The item is on the agenda of our next committee meeting . 
Mr President , I would like to start by congratulating Mr Hernández Molar for the excellent work that he has done on this report and for the spirit of cooperation with which he has sought an all-party consensus behind his recommendations . 
I would like too to pay tribute to the work that the Commission has done in this area . 
If I would pass one message to the governments of the Member States , it is that all too often they fall into the temptation to seek easy headlines by taking the populist approach to the so-called problems of asylum seekers and illegal immigration . 
Too rarely do they look to the principles to which they have signed up and try to deal with this problem seriously . 
These are the things our Member States should be doing . 
So in conclusion , Mr President , and on behalf of the Liberal Group , I welcome this report which we will vote on tomorrow . 
It is an honour and a pleasure to have the opportunity to present this report to Parliament today . 
It is on the very important subject of product liability on which the European Community first introduced legislation as long ago as 1985 in the form of a directive . 
This was transposed in a somewhat leisurely way , and in some cases we might even say in a shockingly slow way , by Member States . 
So it is only fairly recently that there has been across the Union experience of the working of the product liability regime , which of course is not absolutely uniform in any event across the countries , because there are areas where different views may be taken consistent with the directive . 
This legislation substitutes distributive justice , in a sense , for corrective justice in this very important area of the law of civil liability . 
That is better done by other regimes regulating various industries , and we have a good regulatory regime in most of our industries in the European Union now . 
Moreover , it should not be thought that this is the only basis upon which people who are injured can be helped . 
There , however , it is a kind of forensic lottery , as academics have called it , because many people who are injured get nothing at all and some people who are injured get enormous damages . 
It is generally , and rightly , thought that plaintiffs ' lawyers are the people who do best out of the deal . 
We should stick to our own view on social security as the main basis for help , but then have this product liability regime as well . 
The Green Paper raised the question of whether this scheme should be extended and whether some changes should be made . 
This was in response to debates in Parliament last year , which led to the amendment of the directive to include primary agricultural products . 
It seems to me that the Green Paper , although it has started the debate well , will not finish it completely . 
There is a great deal of very interesting work of a scholarly and scientific kind and there could be more if it was known that this was properly under consideration . 
I know that this approach has disappointed some colleagues , particularly those who raised the debate last year , and it has been suggested that the Parliament would simply walk away from important issues if we left it at that . 
So I suggest that we urge the Commission to hold a longer and deeper dialogue about this ; not to precipitate action but to measured consideration . 
We have a good law and the saying `` if a thing ain ' t broken , don ' t fix it ; but do not be complacent about it either '' applies here . 
- My vote in this matter is in support of the need to ensure that the European Patent Office improves its procedures to prevent any patent being used in human cloning . 
It is established and legitimate practice in both academic and biopharmaceutical research to genetically manipulate human cells in tissue culture . 
It is misleading to suggest that the object of this patent is to genetically manipulate humans . 
The University of Edinburgh have indicated their willingness to cooperate with any suitable modification of the patent . 
It think it should be made clear that the potential application of this patent in human cells is to guide the production of particular cells that could be useful in transplantation therapy for conditions such as Parkinson ' s disease , strokes , diabetes and heart failure . 
This is what the Edinburgh research is about . 
Madam President , I would like to bring to your attention an incident last week where two football fans were tragically murdered on their way to watch their team play in the UEFA Cup . 
It is known as a beautiful game . 
In about three months Belgium and Holland will play host to Euro 2000 . 
There is every likelihood that incidents such as those that happened last week will be repeated again in Belgium and Holland . 
Can I ask you , through your good offices , to contact all the Member States who are involved , to try and keep such problems to a minimum ? 
Mr President , I should just like to let Mr Corbett know that within the EPP Group an amendment can not be put before Parliament unless it has been voted in the Group and has the support of the Group . 
He should be quite clear about that procedure within our Group . 
Secondly , as he is aware , there is a process going on at the moment for reforming Parliament . 
If he has any suggestions to put to the Bureau about the voting procedures , that would be the correct way to go about it . 
Mr President , my report is about the European Coal and Steel Community and how that fits in with Mrs Stauner 's report and the discharge . 
We have decided to give the discharge on three conditions , and the conditions are clearly spelt out . 
We hope that by 15 August those concerned will give us the information that is requested . 
What I find extraordinary is that EUR 2 billion are being managed by this vestige - the last remainder of the European Coal and Steel Community , which , of course , was very important historically but is not important any more . 
It is being wound up and it is remarkable that such an instrument should continue with that budget and 145 staff . 
I believe such an instrument should be wound up as quickly as possible so that it is incorporated in perhaps a reformed European Investment Bank : a European Investment Bank that is transparent and accountable . 
Such investments can and should be made by professional banks rather than the little outfit that we have at the moment . 
The number of people employed for the amount of money being invested is again quite disproportionate . 
I am hoping that this can be wound up speedily and incorporated in either the EIB or the European Investment Fund , because that would be a better way of using the money and resources . 
This is for the social and research fund , but again these objectives could be better addressed by a bank that would ask other banks to manage investments so that we have the highest return . 
I hope that the three conditions , the conditional discharge and the obligations on those concerned to address these conditions will be taken seriously . 
Far too often in the past we have found that promises have been made and not kept . 
So I hope that the answers will be given to Parliament and to the Committee on Budgetary Control . 
I think that is about all I need to say . 
On that basis I recommend to this House a discharge . 
Mr President , I welcome the fact that the Cairo EU-African summit took place , but I must stress my disappointment that no one from this democratically elected Parliament had the opportunity to address the summit , nor did NGOs have any input . 
At the very least , the two Co-Presidents of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly could have made statements and this would have given an EU-African balance . 
Members of this Parliament , through the Committee on Development and Cooperation and the ACP-EU Joint Assembly , have laid the foundation for many of the policies in the developing countries : the Martens report in 1997 pointing to the benefits of the Lomé Agreement ; the Rocard report in 1998 strengthening the objectives for the future ; my own report in 1999 on regional cooperation and integration which is top of the Cairo plan of action agenda ; lastly , Mrs Kinnock 's excellent report in 2000 on the future ACP-EU partnership agreement that sets the scene for the next 20 years . 
The final Cairo plan of action is an excellent document if we can now turn words and good intentions into concrete actions . 
I know debt relief was at the top of the African agenda and everything must be done to alleviate poverty , but we must have some evidence that funds saved go towards better health care , better education and an improved standard of living for people and not into arms and war materials . 
For these ideas to come to fruition , African countries themselves have to make the effort towards good governance . 
We have already seen some good election results . 
Let us hope that we can see the same happening in Zimbabwe , Ivory Coast and Togo in the forthcoming elections . 
The top priority of regional cooperation and integration should have strong political benefits as well as trade ones . 
With only 6 % of African trade being carried out in Africa there is huge potential for an increase in trade if tariff barriers and trade barriers are removed . 
Many of these countries will need both time and financial help to compete in the world market , but these countries must understand there is no other option in this new era of globalisation . 
This is all unattainable without peace and peace-building ; conflict prevention , management and resolution must be top of the African agenda . 
The OAU must be given international support to continue its work and the peace initiatives must come from the African countries themselves . 
Where peace is achieved , help must be given for demobilisation and reintegration , and the use of child soldiers below the age of 18 must be banned . 
Ethnic cleansing has been the horror of the last 25 years , and religious wars destroy the very fabric of a country . 
Peace can bring prosperity . 
The main thrust of our aim therefore must be better education leading to better health care . 
Through AIDS and malaria , Africa is losing the very generation it needs to build its future . 
This summit was a start but much has to be done to turn words into reality , and we , Members of this House , must be part of that new world . 
Mr President , ordinary people in most African countries are poorer today than when their countries became independent . 
Poverty , therefore , is a disease inflicted upon innocent populations by evil dictators , greedy and corrupt politicians . 
Natural disasters , including climate change , have aggravated the problem . 
The Touareg in the desert in northern Niger , the Makonde in Tanzania or Mozambique take their families and put their meagre possessions in a little basket if they wish to move . 
They are poor , insecure and exposed to the elements . 
They have no water , sanitation , energy , medicine , education or reliable shelter . 
Such desperate people can not think of democracy and human rights in the way we do from our houses and leafy suburbs in the West . 
They have no stake in their village , regional or national economies . 
Such rootless people , desperate people , are easy prey to evil political manipulation , and that is why we see so much conflict and civil unrest in those countries . 
We here in this Assembly offer these people open and free access to our EU markets . 
We invite them to be part of the global economy , so that they can come and sit at the tables in Seattle for the WTO discussions . 
What does this mean to these poor people , the majority of whom live in the bush , who have no knowledge , no means of efficient cultivation , harvesting , processing , packaging even what little they grow ? 
They can not even market it in their own countries let alone sell it abroad . 
So I suggest , let us teach them to be self-reliant and independent , by teaching them the means to grow and harvest what there is in those countries . 
Let us give them the technology transfer that makes sense , before we say our markets are open to them . 
Mr President , I am sure the Commissioner would agree that writing the report is the easy bit . 
The practical implementation is the difficult bit . 
When this rapid reaction force actually comes together , will it work in certain cases at a regional basis as well as an individual nation basis ? 
There are situations , such as that in the Horn of Africa , which cover more than one state . 
The problems in the Great Lakes region cover a number of countries . 
It would be useful if you could link these problems on a regional basis and act from that point . 
Would the Commissioner agree with that ? 
Mr President , I hope I can risk Mrs Izquierdo 's wrath by saying that I agree with the Commissioner . 
I want to put it to her that it is far better to reduce the rate of growth in agriculture in order to protect the money that is currently going to the very poor in this world , because the alternative would be to squeeze further the budget lines in category 4 . 
It would be unacceptable to find money for Kosovo - which I support - at the expense of the very poor in the world . 
Does the Commissioner agree with that ? 
Mr President , we , for our part , welcome the enlargement of Europe and will participate in the discussion of how to prepare for it . 
The Scottish National Party , which I represent , is committed in its manifesto and its general policy to the idea of Europe as a confederation of peoples , countries and regions , not as a sovereign federal union in its own right . 
That is something which the parties of European Free Alliance have in common and our votes will be cast in that light . 
I want to draw attention particularly to Amendment No 138 , in its interaction with paragraph 32 of the Dimitrakopoulos-Leinen report . 
The reduction in Members of the European Parliament that we would face , coupled with the arrival of new Member States which are smaller in population than Scotland or Wales and which would be fully represented in all the institutions of the Union , will certainly increase the pressure for and our people ' s commitment to the idea of our own independence in this great European confederation . 
Mr President , I would like to give the following explanation of the vote that I cast in the debate concerning additionality . 
I would like particularly to underline the point in the motion that Parliament fully endorses the Commission ' s statement that the spirit of additionality , as well as the letter of the law , represents a key consideration and is vital to ensuring that programmes have a maximum impact on the ground . 
In that light it is absolutely unacceptable that the current policy allows Member States , after submission of region-based plans , to reallocate funds internally yet still formally comply with the additionality principle while defying its spirit . 
This matter urgently calls for review by the Commission . 
Since the debate - yesterday in fact - I have received a very courteous and helpful letter from Mr Barnier indicating that the Commission is moving our way on this . 
I am very glad about that . 
I should like to congratulate my colleague , Mrs Evans , for setting up this marvellous debate and getting this superb result today . 
- I welcome Mr Bowe ' s report as a balanced and considered approach to the important subject of the release into the environment of GMOs . 
The three key issues covered in Mr Bowe ' s report are : environmental liability , antibiotics and gene transfer . 
On environmental liability I tend to take the Commission ' s view that this is best dealt with through horizontal legislation . 
On antibiotics I would be in favour of a ban on the use in GMOs of genes conferring antibiotic resistance . 
As far as gene transfer is concerned I believe measures must be foreseen in the new Directive to control the release of GMOs which can outcross with other plants . 
A strong Directive which deals with concerns about the environment and the health risks of GMOs could go a long way to ensure we realise the potential benefits from GMOs and avoid the pitfalls . 
- I welcome Mr Papayannakis ' report on proposals for an EU-wide compulsory identification system for cows and the labelling of beef and beef products . 
The main aim of the new regulation is to enable consumers to trace the source of the meat they buy right back to the animal . 
This system should enable any potential threats to human health to be tackled early and effectively . 
I support the rapporteur in stressing that the same rules must be applied to imported beef from non-EU countries and , in cases where not all information is available , a clear indication to that effect should be provided . 
Mr Papayannakis is right to insist that labels mention antibiotics and stimulants that have been administered and to oppose derogation from the regulation for minced beef , beef trimmings or cut beef . 
Properly applied this regulation will go a long way to enhance the reputation , quality and safety of EU beef - good news for consumers and producers ! 
Madam President , I wish to begin by welcoming Commissioner Patten ' s statement , which sets out the truth about our European assistance . 
Once again , we see the scenes on our TV screens of starving children in Ethiopia and we remember the horrors of the last famine in the Horn of Africa . 
Once again , we have pop stars and celebrities criticising the institutions of Europe and national governments for doing too little too late . 
It is amazing how quickly some people become experts when a situation like this arises and they can see some publicity , without knowing more of the background to the overall position . 
Somalia is war-torn into small fiefdoms , which makes it extremely difficult for anyone - institutions or NGOs - to deliver food aid to the starving people . 
Who does one negotiate with in such a situation ? 
Ethiopia is engaged in a border dispute with Eritrea , which means most of the manpower is tied up on a war front and much-needed food is being diverted in both countries to feed soldiers rather than starving children . 
Of course we must do everything in our power to alleviate famine . 
However , where countries are at war , all our aid must be humanitarian and channelled through NGO organisations to ensure that aid goes to the starving people and not to the war front . 
We must watch the situation in Eritrea and balance humanitarian aid there , if required . 
We desperately want these two countries to sign a peace agreement through the efforts of the OAU so that we can resume full development aid to both countries . 
I recently spent a week in both Ethiopia and Eritrea . 
I visited refugee camps in both countries and saw for myself the hardship and the poverty people are suffering . 
It is not true to say that Ethiopia has not been crying for help for food aid over the past two years , but the war situation has blurred the vision of many looking on . 
When I was there they were pleading for help . 
I saw children with serious malnutrition and in need of health care , as well as food and proper shelter . 
I saw families living in caves , the walls running with water , and listened to the hacking coughs of children racked with fever . 
It looks bad on TV ; it is a hundred times worse when you stand amongst it , when people are in such dire situations . 
However , I saw food aid being delivered in Eritrea by German NGOs to a camp of 16 000 people , spread over 7 kilometres in case of bombing raids . 
I watched two strong men lifting 50-kg bags on to women ' s backs and saw them stagger off to their plastic shelters kilometres away . 
I saw children aged eight walking eight kilometres out and eight kilometres back to get water . 
They were the lucky ones : they were the ones with food . 
We never seem to learn a lesson from the past . 
It should not be TV cameras and pop stars who alert us to starvation and drought : there should be a proper monitoring system in the sensitive areas of the African continent . 
Perhaps this could be built into Commissioner Patten ' s rapid reaction unit we heard of yesterday . 
We must have action and we must have action decisively and urgently . 
Mr President , misery and death in Ethiopia were on our screens four years ago . 
The cameramen left but misery and death did not leave Ethiopia . 
Starvation and death continue today . 
The population of Ethiopia pray for rain . 
Sadly they see only a rain of bullets . 
People crave water , food and medicine . 
Sadly all they see is their land and their homes blown to pieces by the tanks and planes our governments supply to the Ethiopian and Eritrean politicians . 
These politicians are hungry for power : politicians who argue over territorial boundaries whilst their people die . 
Famine , disease and death remain the hallmarks of these countries . 
Hunger for power must not be allowed to override the hunger for life . 
Mr Patten has listed a number of measures the EU has taken to help . 
Such help has been received with gratitude , but let us put it into perspective . 
Sixteen million people are starving today ; 15 000 tonnes have been delivered . 
I accept the difficulties of the logistics but that means less than a kilo per person . 
No time limit is given , in other words it is a kilo that has to last forever . 
These measures are palliative . 
They only relieve the symptoms ; they do not cure the disease . 
The EU must take the lead in curing this serious problem and the only way to do it is firstly to stop arms reaching all the warring parties and make sure we use our influence with those who supply them ; and secondly teach these people how to grow food and harvest , store , package and process it so that they can be independent and self-reliant , not beggars for life . 
Mr President , could I ask the President-in-Office of the Council - all of whose good intentions for a multi-ethnic Kosovo I accept - whether he would not admit that the international community ' s policy there in all its facets - the European Union , the United Nations , KFOR , NATO et al - is really an unmitigated and disastrous failure and getting worse by the day . 
What is being done to get the KLA and the Albanian bully-boys , who clearly have no interest in a multi-ethnic Kosovo , under control ? 
There just seems to be an ineffectual permissiveness of the situation despite all these wonderful , pious good intentions . 
- While not able to endorse every dot and comma of this report , I support its broad thrust . 
If we are to make a success of enlargement a number of key reforms are essential . 
A Union unable to make decisions would not serve the purpose of existing or applicant states . 
we must increase the use of qualified majority voting in the Council in order to avoid paralysis in decision taking , 
we must limit the number of Commissioners so that the Union 's executive remains efficient 
and we must limit the number of MEPs to 700 to enable Parliament to function effectively . 
We must continue to improve the Community 's capacity for external action and further democratise key areas of the Union 's activities . 
Mr President , this short debate takes place against a background of increasing tension in Zimbabwe . 
All of us who speak should remember that every word of our speeches and the resolution will be eagerly read in Zimbabwe within the next 48 hours by all sides . 
We must , therefore , all encourage Zimbabwe to move towards elections in May . 
This could take up to three months . 
However , the old Lomé Convention made democracy , human rights and the rule of law a requirement for development aid . 
The new Partnership Agreement goes further and asks for good governance . 
It is disappointing that Zimbabwe feels the need to be involved in the war in the Democratic Republic of Congo at a time when precious resources could be spent on domestic requirements , such as education and health . 
We all look forward to the rule of law being strengthened and a democratisation process fully operating under an independent judiciary to allow civil society to express its wishes through a fair and open press . 
The Zimbabwean people must be given a chance to choose their future . 
Mr President , I should like to say that I cast a vote in error yesterday afternoon on the question of referring the bananas issue back to committee . 
We in this Parliament risk setting ourselves on a course which will fail to help the banana growers and , at the same time , will continue to inflict grave injustice on small enterprises engaged in producing things like bath products and ... 
Mr President , those of us who represent Scotland in this House were very grateful when this year the Parliament decided to make its office in Edinburgh permanent . 
That would be a disaster . 
May I mention one other sad case , which is of importance in the area of information and communication . 
I want to draw attention , yet again , to the case of the Italian language lecturers . 
New developments in the case have shown that the quality of openness in information and communication by the Commission on this sort of issue leaves much to be desired . 
In these proceedings it is vital that the interested parties are fully informed by the Commission , but the practice fails to honour that ideal . 
There has been some evidence this week that the former Commission has actively misled parties in cases of this kind . 
During the current Parliament , I have had a number of assurances that the Commission is serious about upholding rights derived from Community law on behalf of lecturers in all issues involving non-discrimination . 
That really must be taken seriously . 
It is a point about openness , about being ready to communicate what is going on and about informing people how seriously we take rights arising from Community law and how seriously we take the need to demonstrate to our citizens and our public the importance of what is accomplished here . 
I am glad that the Commission and Parliament have helped to make information available in Scotland and I wish our own media would do likewise . 
Madam President , coming back to a point that was raised earlier on : 9 May is , as you know , Europe Day and Parliament will be closed . 
There is , however , a meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market being held on that day . 
Will members of the public be allowed to attend that meeting as observers or will they be barred from entering the Parliament ? 
Mr President , there is a practice in this House of thanking and complimenting rapporteurs and sometimes I have to confess that I feel it can be overdone . 
But on this occasion I wish to say that it would not be overdone if I , on behalf of myself and my Group , particularly thank and congratulate the rapporteur on her work . 
Perhaps I might also , as a new Member of the House , and therefore of the committee , thank her for the marvellous job she does as the chairman of our committee - for the courtesy and kindness , but firmness with which she carries out its business . 
Is this , we ask ourselves , the death of ideology ? 
It is therefore , and I think we are all correct about this , vital that we get on with it and that we do not risk unnecessary delay in bringing this into effect . 
Nevertheless , I was very grateful to my colleague , Mrs Ahern , also from the committee , for raising some points of continuing concern tonight and I would like to thank again the rapporteur for the device whereby she has introduced in an addendum to the resolution the points about the intermediate service providers and codes of conduct . 
That is important and I hope that the Commission will be taking that on board . 
Coming as I do from one of the very remote parts of Europe , it is exciting to speculate on the possibility that these new media will help to correct the apparently unstoppable drift to the centre and the decay of the outlying parts of all our countries and societies . 
In these circumstances we should welcome the chance to bring in an effective regulation on e-commerce . 
We are also challenged - albeit outside the scope of this directive - to make sure that we do not have an exclusion of people by ignorance or the lack of access to the instruments of this medium of communication . 
So let us be sure that we carry the directive but do not forget the other problems . 
Mr President , I warmly welcome the extension and modification of the Food Aid Convention and thank the rapporteur for her work on this report . 
The Commission proposal comes in for some criticism from the Budgets Committee in that there is no complete financial statement . 
I have to say , with the fluid nature of food aid it must be extremely difficult to project accurate financial figures . 
Now that the scope of aid has been widened , quite rightly in my opinion , from just cereals , this would be even more difficult . 
I am particularly pleased to read in the new Convention that least-developed countries and low-income countries will be given priority when food aid is being allocated . 
I am also pleased to see stronger provisions for promoting local agricultural development and local purchases as this also assists local economies and encourages local agriculture . 
There are now many areas of sub-Saharan Africa where , unless there is a dramatic climate change for the better , it is unlikely that food will ever grow again . 
I am thinking particularly of areas where the desert is literally burying the productive land . 
We are now seeing in Ethiopia an even more desperate situation , where food aid is being provided but there is no water to cook with . 
This is an issue that will have to be addressed in the future . 
Water will become more valuable than oil in future in developing countries . 
It is also good news that the new Convention covers transport costs and associated operational costs . 
Even if again this comes in for criticism from the Budgets Committee , it is not much good delivering food aid to a country ' s ports if you can not then distribute it to the remote areas by truck or by air to the people starving and in need . 
The extension of the Convention and the new rules that have been introduced must therefore be warmly welcomed . 
Mr President , I would like to thank the rapporteur not only for the work he has put in to produce this report but also for the rather unique way he has had to handle the situation that the Development Committee and Parliament found itself in . 
Surely we can not continue to work in this way . 
It is interesting to note that half this report is taken up by the procedural points the rapporteur has had to work his way through . 
Now it has returned to us it is particularly pleasing that the Council has adopted the thrust of most of our amendments . 
I have just spent a week in South Africa and there is much appreciation for all that the EU is doing to stabilise their fragile democracy . 
Only by rapidly improving living standards , particularly in health , education and employment , will stability remain . 
There was much resentment against some nation states at the hold-ups there had been over the new trade agreement with particular reference to spirit names . 
We are doing much for South Africa and I hope , in return , President Mbeki will work for peace in the region , with particular reference to Zimbabwe . 
The implication in the rapporteur 's report that this regulation may have been delayed because it was being used as a bargaining chip is very worrying . 
The Commission might like to comment on this particular point . 
I would also like to hear from the Commission on how we can streamline the system . 
In the last session in Strasbourg we had another regulation that had also run out last December and this should not happen . 
I must strongly support the rapporteur and his suggestions that the Commission should be tackling the issues of major topics , such as the importance and the overall impact of the programme in relation to the agreed objectives rather than individual programmes . 
I would also like to see delegate offices strengthened with more and better staff to be able to cope more efficiently with monitoring and evaluations . 
This regulation is bound to have an impact on neighbouring states and I hope the Commission will take this into consideration . 
The rapporteur has broken new ground on commitology which can only bode well for the future . 
My group supports this regulation but asks for a speedy conclusion to the vacuum we are in . 
We would not like to see any disagreement on budget amounts hold up ratification . 
Mr President , as other colleagues have said , dealing with Amsterdam and preparing for enlargement are major challenges for this institution . 
As far as I am concerned - and we should be very clear about this - new challenges require new resources . 
As the rapporteur has indicated , you start by looking at existing resources and see where staff and resources which are under-utilised or no longer appropriate can be transferred . 
Once that has been done , in the new situation in which the European Parliament finds itself , there is no alternative but to expand our budget . 
I hear what Mr Wynn , the chairman of the committee , has said about prudence . 
Prudence is in danger of becoming a false goddess : if we put too much emphasis on prudence it will be at the expense of the efficiency and the effectiveness of this Institution . 
There is a delicate balance to be struck , and I know that in his report the rapporteur has striven towards it . 
I broadly welcome Mr Ferber 's report . 
However , there are three fronts to which Parliament needs to pay more attention between now and September . 
The first , as other colleagues have mentioned , is the issue of languages . 
I had the honour of sitting on Mr Cot 's working group on multilingualism . 
Frankly , if this institution wishes to continue to practise multilingualism - and perhaps that is a debate we should have - there is no alternative but to start recruiting now . 
If we leave it any longer , once we start enlargement we will not be in a position to continue multilingualism . 
The decision will be taken for us . 
We were almost in that position with Finnish at the last enlargement . 
As Members will notice , the Finnish interpreters do a good job speaking English and other languages because we could not recruit Finnish-speaking English interpreters . 
We shall find ourselves in that position again come the next enlargement unless we take hard decisions now . 
So I want Parliament to rethink the 35 language posts . 
The second area where we still have much to do as an Institution is informatics . 
We have come a long way , but there are further benefits to be obtained from informatics . 
Finally , again , something I have heard you , Mr President , talk about : the issue of legal advice . 
The new Amsterdam situation means that when we pass amendments and resolutions in this Chamber we have to be more aware of the legal consequences as well as the political consequences of what we are deciding . 
We need to enhance the legal advice we have as a Parliament to support us through the conciliation and other procedures . 
However , to spend one or two per cent more in order to ensure that we remain effective is worth it , and we should look at prudence in the context of the wider demands of this Parliament . 
Madam President , the situation in South Africa is difficult - and it is by no means an easy country to run . 
Yet South Africa presents itself as a beacon of hope in an otherwise turbulent continent . 
We should therefore be doing everything possible to assist the economic , social and democratic development of that country . 
That is why I regret that the Council proposes only EUR 787.5 million for South Africa , which is effectively a 10 % cut on the amounts we agreed five years ago . 
Parliament , in its Amendment No 2 , proposes that we give EUR 885.5 million to South Africa , EUR 98 million more than the Council . 
EUR 98 million is not an insignificant sum of money in South African terms . 
In terms of the European budget it is not something we would struggle to find . 
I would urge that we be generous to South Africa , that the Council finds this EUR 98 million , does not go to conciliation but accepts Parliament 's amendments and gets on with implementing this new regulation with South Africa . 
Mr President , as you say , this is a new procedure and I hope that it helps to establish in Parliament the importance of the conciliation procedure in achieving legislation to which Parliament has aspired . 
I want to say today how much I enjoyed the support and the great help of the rapporteur and the Chairman of the Employment and Social Affairs Committee . 
Mrs Smet , our rapporteur , was President of the Council of Ministers when the original Working Time Directive was enacted . 
Mr Rocard is a former very well-known French minister and indeed Prime Minister . 
The delegation also had a great responsibility in this negotiation because we had many difficult decisions to take . 
We did not achieve everything that we wanted to achieve as a Parliament , but I think we went a long way towards helping all those people who are now going to be included within the Working Time Directive to see some progress so that they can eventually get to the goal that we were all trying to achieve . 
If we take , for instance , the junior doctors , we discover that Parliament originally wanted a six-year period in which to achieve the 48 hours . 
That was never likely to be negotiated with the Council , but we were able to make substantial progress from the Council 's original proposal of 13 years . 
Indeed , we finished up with a nine-year period . 
Only in extreme circumstances will governments be able to go through a procedure to justify an extension of that period of nine years . 
The interesting thing in this aspect is that we are making real progress on reducing the time of work for junior doctors . 
As many people will be aware , today , many junior doctors are working 72 hours in some countries . 
The progress that we are making is that in the first three years , the junior doctors ' hours will be reduced to 58 and over the following two years to 56 hours and 52 hours respectively . 
We see that the junior doctors are , in fact , going to get a great benefit from this extension to the directive . 
We also were able to clarify the position regarding the classification of mobile workers . 
The case was argued that , for instance , somebody driving a lorry for a large retail store should be included in retail-type legislation for working time , and only genuine transport workers are now going to fall exclusively within the transport sector . 
That , I think , was another major achievement for Parliament in this negotiation . 
We move on to the fishermen who were greatly concerned by the application of this directive to their working life because they felt they would not be able to operate properly within that system . 
In all honour to everybody concerned in the negotiation , the Council and all Members of the delegation , they have made real progress and I recommend the outcome of the conciliation process to the House and hope they support it . 
Mr President , in previous debates here last November and in April of this year I supported the general principles behind the idea of directives on working time and I still do so . 
Clearly there are significant health and safety issues which can be addressed - not only for the protection of workers but also for the protection of their customers and the general public - and issues of customer health and safety of course are particularly relevant in relation to doctors in training . 
Like my colleague , Mrs Lambert , I am concerned that this compromise has not gone quite far enough in relation to doctors ' hours . 
There would remain though some workers in some working places where practical issues do not readily lend themselves to the implementation of this type of directive . 
Coming from Scotland , with one of the largest EU fishing fleets , I would like once again to focus on the problem of fisheries and the defining of working time . 
I note the compromise concerning sea-fishermen - a maximum of 48 hours of weekly work in a reference period of 12 months and the possibility of derogation after consultation and by agreement . 
This may be an improvement but I still have some questions to put to the Commission . 
We have to recognise that there were good reasons for the initial exclusion of the fisheries sector . 
As regards fishing there is a deep-seated suspicion of Brussels in many respects and a lot of opposition to the whole idea of fishermen being told when to sleep or when to go to sea , given that their working time is governed by uncontrollable factors such as climatic conditions and the movement of shoals of fish . 
The directive says that work at sea comprises sea fishing and other offshore work . 
Many fishermen , particularly in Scotland , are organised on a family basis - they are share-fishermen paid only a proportion of their vessel 's catch . 
They are clearly not employees in the sense of the word that we would understand . 
Is this directive going to affect them or is it not ? 
I have asked the Commission this question previously in committee and in plenary and have not yet received absolute clarification of this point . 
The Conciliation Committee concluded in the case of those share fishermen who are employees - a statement which seems to me to be contradictory - that it is for Member States to determine the conditions for entitlement to annual leave and payments etc , but there is no explanation as to whether or when a share fisherman is employed . 
I know for sure that the fishermen that I see around the coast of Scotland can only be defined as self-employed and I stress the need for clarification of this . 
There are huge differences between a large-scale long-distance fleet where fishermen are employed by companies and sent off for months on end and the smaller - and medium-sized boats , which operate on a family or a cooperative basis . 
This is an issue about the definition of self-employment or owner operation and I know that the compromise deletes own-account transport operators , clearly and quite properly identifying an exception in that area . 
I call for a similar exception for share-fishermen . 
Mr President , the current weakness and volatility of the euro is a cause of concern both within and outside the euro-zone . 
Does the Commissioner feel that the current stability pact and the powers of the European Central Bank are sufficient to force the Euro-land states to make the difficult and fundamental adjustments in their economic and labour markets , which are essential if the euro is going to be taken seriously by the global financial markets ? 
I wish to thank the Commissioner for that very full answer and , in particular , for the last part where he indicates that the Commission is looking at speeding up and , where possible , giving fast-track approval for state aids . 
However , in some Member States there is still a serious problem created by delays in decision-taking on state aids . 
I am convinced that some jobs have been lost because waiting for the decision on state aid has meant that a company has gone out of business in the end because it did not have the approval in time . 
In terms of the delay , is the Commission of the opinion that the reorganisation that is currently going on will provide new resources and assistance to him in his attempts to speed up the processing of state aids , or does the problem lie , as he partly indicated , with the Member States in the inadequate information provided by some of them when they make an application ? 
Mr President , what the investigations into this incident show is what can best be described as a culture of management incompetence and one of complacency . 
The report by the Nuclear Installations Inspectorate in February of this year into the safety records found that these records had been systematically falsified . 
The processing of spent fuel from 34 plants in 9 different countries was thrown into doubt and , indeed , Japan , Germany and Switzerland stopped sending material - and quite rightly so - to Sellafield . 
This whole sorry tale has added to the UK 's reputation , as sordid as it is often inaccurate , as the `` dirty man of Europe '' . 
I believe that all at Sellafield must accept collective responsibility for the things that have gone wrong and must act to improve them . 
A number of improvements have been made : the new chairman of BNFL has undertaken a fundamental review ; a number of people have been dismissed . 
There is undoubtedly progress . 
However , there is a lot yet to be achieved and there is a long way for the UK to go , and for BNFL to go to re-establish its reputation . 
I would ally myself with the concerns of Mrs McNally , when she asked the Commissioner to look again at these matters . 
The fact is that the Commissioner telling us that the rules of individual Member States are more specific is simply not good enough . 
We need high minimum standards and , in particular , we need those standards in the light of the accession of candidate countries , many of which are more reliant on nuclear technology than existing members of the Union and have much older generating capacity . 
I recognise and feel deeply the concern expressed by colleagues in the Republic of Ireland and Denmark . 
The fact is that we need legislation to implement what is called for in the motion put forward by the three main political groups tonight : high minimum standards for the safe and reliable design , construction and operation of nuclear and nuclear-related installations , as well as for nuclear-safety management systems . 
It raises the perfectly legitimate question of whether nuclear reprocessing should continue at Sellafield . 
We recognise too the great significance of this plant for employment in west Cumbria and we believe that should the future of the plant be thrown into jeopardy then the European Commission must come forward with special measures to help regenerate other employment in the area . 
Mr President , when one hears of the horrendous debt that has built up in many African states , the first reaction is one of deep sympathy . 
However , I have had the privilege of visiting many of these countries in the past year and I have to say that , in many cases , one ' s sympathy turns to anger when one sees the abject poverty that people in these countries live in while their leaders and ministers revel in wealth and prosperity and one begins to question the distribution of aid and debt relief . 
Despite all the help given from Europe , individual nation states and institutions , Africa ' s external debt is growing by about 12 % per annum and some countries are repaying more in interest than they are receiving in aid . 
That can not be allowed to continue , but neither can the historic reasons for causing it to happen . 
I will be criticised by some honourable Members for saying it , but conditionality must be built into not only development aid but also debt relief . 
I have always maintained that good governance was more important than pure democracy if you are going to stamp out corrupt practices , and if we can not wipe these practices out we are only pouring good money after bad . 
We must therefore be in a position to monitor the effect of debt relief and make sure that all of it is spent on civil society to give better health , education and employment prospects to the people who are being denied it . 
There is a secondary effect of bad governance and that is the lack of external investment into these countries which denies them the chance of improved prosperity , better employment prospects and a higher standard of living . 
The fight against fraud and corruption should be made a condition for allocating debt relief and development aid - not my words , Mr President , but the words of President Obasanjo of Nigeria in Abuja at the opening of the 13th session of the ACP-EU Assembly . 
If only that could be echoed by every other president in Africa , the resistance to giving debt relief would diminish and some real progress could be made in alleviating the misery and poverty of millions of people . 
Mr President , I suppose I can start on a note of slight optimism in that President Mugabe has now named the days for the election as 24 and 25 June . 
But on the down side , he is increasing all the army and civil servants ' pay as a straight bribe . 
I sincerely hope that Members of this Parliament will have the chance to act as observers , as these elections must be seen to have been free , fair and transparent in the atmosphere of fear that President Mugabe has created . 
Only last month we passed a resolution in this Chamber condemning violence , calling for the return to full democracy and for free and fair elections to be held . 
Some of these demands have now hopefully been implemented , but not before another white farmer had been murdered . 
We all accept that there must be a redistribution of the best land in Zimbabwe , but this must be done through round table negotiations , and not with the violent acts we have seen over the last few months . 
President Mugabe has now set up a committee of white farmers and Mugabe supporters , hopefully to reach a sensible agreement on land redistribution . 
President Mugabe should never forget the economic damage that will be done to Zimbabwe ' s economy if land redistribution simply means the land goes back to subsistence farming in small blocks . 
There are few people in the rabble we have seen invading farms who could afford the employees , the machinery , seeds and fertilisers to farm these units to give a potential export output . 
I have seen some of the farms that were reclaimed some years ago by Mr Mugabe and most of the fertile productive land has reverted to bush and the buildings and farmhouses are now crumbling ruins . 
What a waste in a country dependent on agricultural exports ! 
Over the last few years , there has been a move to persuade political leaders in African regions to carry more responsibility for conflict prevention . 
It was , therefore , gratifying to hear Nelson Mandela criticising the policies of the Zimbabwe president who is destroying his country . 
I am sorry that President Mbeki , his successor , who is probably the most powerful leader in Africa , has not in public condemned the violence in Zimbabwe . 
We in Parliament are right to call on the Commission to review its development cooperation with Zimbabwe if transparent elections are not held or if the opposition wins and the violence continues . 
The use of Article 366 should be considered . 
The World Bank has now cut funding because of debt arrears and Zimbabwe , as a country , is in liquidation . 
We can but live and hope that a peaceful conclusion can be reached in Zimbabwe as it is the people themselves who are suffering most in this unstable situation the country finds itself in . 
I attend Question Time nearly every time and every time the first question or two are from our colleagues in the Greek Communists and , in particular , Mr Alavanos . 
You will notice that the date on this question is 30 March 2000 , which was two weeks before the last part-session . 
Therefore , in my view , it should not have been number one on the list but should have been on the last part-session ' s list of questions . 
There seems to be some system whereby Mr Alavanos and his colleagues always get the first and second questions , and they always attack Turkey . 
I should like you to investigate why this should be . 
Mr President , I wish to begin by saying how delighted I am that the presidency is prepared to put some pressure on the governments which , in turn , I hope will put pressure on their parliaments to proceed with ratification . 
It is quite shaming that after well over six months there are eight Member States still to ratify . 
The Jordanians are particularly sensitive to the slow pace of progress . 
Commissioner Patten is determined to reinvigorate the whole Barcelona process and the European-Mediterranean relationship . 
I hope that the Council will follow that lead and ensure that this is transmitted down through the governments to the Member State parliaments . 
Could he give me some assurance that the Council gives Mr Patten its full support in what he is trying to do in the Mediterranean area ? 
When I speak to small - and medium-sized enterprises , they are certainly pleased about the mood music that is coming out of the Council , but frankly they are a little sceptical as to whether the Charter will do anything constructive for them . 
They think it is just another piece of paper saying how wonderful they are . 
Can the President-in-Office tell us if this Charter will envisage new Community instruments being created to help small - and medium-sized enterprises . 
For example , funds to help them with training , education , adaptation of premises or the use of new technology . 
If so , can he also indicate that they will be as free as possible from bureaucracy because the other complaint one gets from small - and medium-sized enterprises is that the funds which already exist at European level are almost unobtainable because of the hoops that they have to jump through in order to obtain them . 
Mr President , I have to say with great regret that I disagree with my colleague , Mrs Plooij-Van Gorsel , on one point , namely this : if there is any end worth pursuing in human life it is knowledge for knowledge ' s own sake . 
If there is any impulse which contributes to good research it is the impulse of pure curiosity . 
It has been work done out of pure curiosity for the sake of knowledge as an end in itself which has , in the end , produced the big spin-offs that make a real difference . 
I agree with her , however , that it is not enough to justify spending public money on the ground that somebody suffers from acute curiosity . 
Therefore , it is the promise of long-term applicability and long-term economic contribution that justifies the expenditure of public funds . 
But we must remember that public funds will not be well spent unless they are spent on people who have the drive of curiosity and the commitment to knowledge for its own sake . 
That is something which we in Europe forget at our peril . 
Indeed I am very grateful to Mrs Plooij-Van Gorsel for the way in which she has worked into the report of the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy practically all the points that were contained in the draft opinion from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market for which I was responsible and which is the reason for my addressing you tonight . 
The whole is better than the sum of its two parts . 
It was very good of her to work it in so effectively . 
The amendments by Mr Pietrasanta and Mrs Maes , which add the points about sustainability , environmental goods and health , to the other economic points that we have been making , are important and should be adopted . 
There is indeed a European crisis in research funding . 
Subsidiarity is all-important ; subsidiarity , as the Commissioner has said , in its broadest sense - regions contributing to research as well as Member States and the Commission , right down to the research team . 
They are the people at the sharp end . 
We must make sure that we never have systems of research support that are so over-burdened with bureaucracy , with application mechanisms so difficult to penetrate that we use resources in applying for research funds that should be spent doing the research itself . 
Simplicity is all and subsidiarity means , in this context , simplicity and an appropriate period of research review . 
We also need other things . 
We need due and proper attention to mobility and all that goes with it , proper research careers throughout Europe , the chance for people to gain employment in research and to move freely . 
The omens are not entirely good . 
We have seen , in the case of the foreign language lecturers in Italy , that 12 years have passed with immobility enshrined in European law because the right to free movement without regard to nationality has been denied and has not yet been effectively enforced by the Commission . 
We really must insist that improvement is achieved here and is carried through from the teaching community into the closely allied research community . 
In short , we must do at Community and Union level the things that can only be done at those levels and push the rest down . 
All that is stated in paragraph 40 of the report . 
We must also be better at developing and applying the knowledge we achieve . 
Many good ideas that are developed do not get taken up . 
That is also vital . 
Mr President , with great respect to the rapporteur , she is making a point which was not made at all in the debate last night . 
It may be that , in the end , there will be some redundancy , but there are different points being made . 
Mr President , the paragraph 13 which emerged from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market , states that the Legal Affairs Committee agreed to request biennial reporting , that is to say , reporting every two years . 
Whereas , perhaps owing to my curious accent , it was transcribed as `` biannual '' , which would require two reports a year and would be over-egging the pudding ! 
I therefore request that this be orally amended to `` biennial '' . 
I should like to move that we proceed to a vote straight away . 
We had the debate on this this morning , we made our decision , let us just get on with it . 
- Given the worrying evidence that racism is on the rise I warmly welcome this report which aims to ensure equal treatment in the employment and social sector between persons of all ethnic backgrounds . 
The rapporteur seeks to ensure a common minimum level of protection including the reversal of the burden of proof in civil race discrimination cases and giving individuals the right to take civil proceedings if they are harassed or victimised on the grounds of race . 
The Portuguese Presidency is to be congratulated for their readiness to put this matter on the Council ' s agenda . 
I have been up in my room just now , and it is little surprising that Fridays are so devalued . 
The television technicians have gone home , so the television pictures are of the Assembly and no longer of the original speakers . 
I would ask you to check that the whole service of Parliament is available so long as the House is sitting . 
I welcome the Commission 's updating of the regulation on the protection of juveniles . 
We all know that sustainable development is a learning process and we must be able to update and adapt existing legislation to protect our fish stocks . 
I have paid particular attention to scientific advice which indicates the requirement for the closure of fisheries for sand eels off the north-east coast of England and the east coast of Scotland . 
This does not just concern the maintenance of sand eel stocks themselves , but the preservation of the entire ecosystem in these localities . 
The low breeding rate of the kittiwake that Mr Busk referred to is of particular concern . 
However , while these measures will hopefully contribute to improving the state of fishery resources , I am concerned that the Commission has not got it right in certain other areas : for example , in the recent report on the implementation of MAGPs and the drastic cuts that it calls for in some fleets which is of grave concern to Scots and other fishermen . 
I would like to ask the Commission if they have really looked at whether cutting fleet sizes actually improves the conservation of fisheries . 
I quote from the Commission 's own document which says : `` The Scientific , Technical and Economic Committee for Fisheries found no evidence that stocks had , in general , deteriorated or improved since the adoption of MAGP4 . '' 
Surely we must question the effectiveness of MAGPs as a conservation measure . 
In those states which have , on paper at least , been complying with MAGPs such as Spain and Portugal , what has happened to the vessels which are removed from the register ? 
How many would be decommissioned ? 
How many were simply transferred to another flag ? 
How many vessels continue to fish either here in the Community or elsewhere under what is , in many cases , a flag of convenience ? 
The Commission must get conservation measures right , but I am not convinced that MAGPs are the way to do that . 
They can be circumvented easily and they do not fully take into account national measures such as days at sea . 
How can the Commission reconcile this with the fact that its own report says , and I quote again : `` It could be argued that a reduction in activity would have a more direct impact on the exploitation rates than a reduction in capacity . '' 
I hope that the Commission will review its position and not impose swingeing cuts on our fleets . 
In Scotland , the proposed cuts would cost hundreds of jobs in particularly fragile rural areas . 
The new proposals to cut fleets will , ironically , fall mainly on the Scottish pelagic fleet where MAGP targets have actually been met through control measures . 
I welcome today 's reports on this agenda , but I hope the Commission will think again when it comes to the interrelation between fleet sizes and other conservation measures . 
We have got to get this right so that in the long run fish stocks in Europe are conserved , thereby ensuring the continuing viability of our fisheries communities . 
Mr McCartin appeared with his last remarks to be accusing honourable Members of this House of misleading the public . 
I hope that was not true . 
In case it was , then I suggest that he ought to be supplied with a map of the Scottish fishing areas to see just why it is so important to a lot of places where people can take boats out from . 
I am glad to say that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market is in substantial agreement with Mr Langen and finds no legal obstacles to this bloc exemption regulation . 
As Members of the House will know , the bloc exemption creates exemptions from normal competition law , of the kind Mr Langen mentioned , in relation to the calculation of premiums where net premiums may be jointly calculated by insurers . 
Secondly , in the establishment of standard policy conditions for direct insurance and common models illustrating profits from insurance policies involving an element of capitalisation . 
It also creates an exemption to make possible co-insurance , common coverage of certain risks and , finally , the coordination of technical specifications for safety equipment and procedures . 
The Commission says in its report that it is disappointed that the insurance industry has not taken up as much of that as it might have done . 
These are all areas where it seems clear that there is a genuine public interest in not insisting on the strictest rigours of competition law . 
What that draws to our attention , in a philosophical way , is that even in a competitive market , insurance is inherently a collective activity in which people share risks among themselves . 
If I might make a remark about a currently controversial topic in my own country , I think it is a pity to see such vigorous efforts being made to de-mutualise excellent old mutual assurance companies which fully express the collective aspect of insurance , and I am sad to think of a raid being made on the Standard Life in this way . 
It is therefore with some hesitation that I voted for the deletion of Fridays from the Strasbourg sessions . 
I have come to the opinion that agendas for the Friday sessions have been engineered to fill up the session and are becoming increasingly meaningless . 
It does this institution no favours when , on a Friday , there are fewer than a hundred Members debating a resolution which is of no importance . 
This Parliament must restructure its mode of operation to reflect the changed working conditions . 
However , we believe that there are a number of technical areas which will need to be clarified following first reading in negotiation with the Commission and Council . 
The question of tobacco growing subsidy has not been addressed in this report . 
Although many Members feel it is part of the whole debate on tobacco and health and should have been included here , we believe that it would be more correctly brought up in reform of the CAP . 
Many friends and women who are colleagues in this Parliament have just pointed out that my name appears as one of those who signed against women 's rights . 
It must be an error . 
Sometimes colleagues bring petitions from delegations and we sign them . 
I wish to thank the President-in-Office for his reply . 
I would say this question was prompted by the very large number of letters I receive from constituents about this particular issue . 
It is perhaps the issue I have received more letters about in the last year than any other . 
The President-in-Office said in his reply that the Council will remind the Egyptians of their responsibilities and wait until they have signed the association agreement and can bring an institutionalised political dialogue to bear . 
But why does he not use the signing of this agreement as a basis on which to force the Egyptians to come to a more equable , reasonable and non-discriminatory approach to their Coptic Christian citizens ? 
In the case of China we have very many major trading arrangements and , potentially , their accession to the WTO . 
Could we not use our power , our muscle , in order to achieve our human rights objectives and not just go on talking and talking without seeing any results ? 
Mr President , on behalf of the Liberal Group , I should like to welcome this report and to thank Mrs Sörensen for her excellent work in drawing up such an important document . 
I welcome the underlying Commission communication , but I would say , on behalf of my Group , that we regret that this communication was not much stronger . 
It is quite clear that the Treaties provide the Union with the instruments that are necessary to strengthen protection of the victims of crime . 
I think , for example , of some of the conclusions of the Wergens report , and we would have expected more from the Commission than proposals for greater dialogue and the exchange of best practice . 
We need clear measures to help victims with access to assistance , justice and compensation . 
However , it must be said that if we feel the Commission could do more , the biggest problem is by far the Member States . 
It seems to us incredible that seven Member States have still not ratified the 1983 Convention on compensation for victims of violent crime and that standards of justice are still so low in so many Member States . 
Let me give just one brief example from my own constituency . 
He is unable to secure any compensation or , indeed , any justice for the injuries he has suffered . 
Unless we are able as a Union to help in relatively clear and simple situations like this , our citizens will not have confidence in the single market and will not feel part of the European Union . 
I hope that we can take up some of the ideas put forward in this report to improve their situation . 
Mr President , I noted that Amendment No 11 included the proposition that the Community should take action in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity only if and insofar as the objectives of the proposed actions can not be adequately achieved by the Member States or - and I emphasis this - their constituent states with legislative powers that have been conferred on them by national constitutional law . 
I thought that part of the amendment was very valuable although there were other aspects of it which I could not support . 
I regret that the topic of subsidiarity is substantially missing from the Feira resolution . 
On that account I did not vote for it . 
Mr President , I am very grateful to my colleague and friend Mrs Attwooll for her remarks about Amendment No 5 , which is in the name of my colleagues , Nogueira Román and Ortuondo Larrea . 
I should also like to commend to the House Amendments Nos 4 , 6 and 7 , also in their names , which strengthen and underline important points in the report . 
But I make no apology for coming back to Amendment No 5 in the sense in which Mrs Attwooll spoke of it . 
It is vital for the concept of subsidiarity to be brought into the heart of our notion of structural funding and for the regional , local and national authorities within Member States to be fully engaged in the process of implementing the structural funds and applying them . 
Perhaps Commissioner Barnier will not be surprised if I bang home again on the point that whatever might have been the failures of the past , he has the opportunity to make successes in the future and to ensure that the additionality principle is not just a formal principle requiring Member States to satisfy certain budgetary conditions in a global way . 
Rather it should become a substantive principle built into the idea of subsidiarity which he and President Prodi are researching so that at regional and national level within Member States we can see that the funds really are being used to enhance and improve development . 
Mr President , on behalf of my group I have the pleasure of welcoming Mrs Grossetête 's report . 
I particularly want to stress a clause which she mentioned in her own speech : recital ( e ) says that on the eve of several successive enlargements the conduct of the current Member States of the Union in the application of Community law must be exemplary . 
I have on more than one occasion in this House referred , as others have done , to the shocking case of the foreign language lecturers in Italy who first received a judgment in their favour eleven years ago . 
The law of Italy has not yet been brought into conformity with it , to satisfy their rights . 
If we do not satisfy these we let ourselves down in the face of our own aspirations . 
I have received disturbing correspondence this week from a number of sources in Germany , suggesting that a similar problem may be building up concerning self-employed foreign language teachers working there , where laws are being applied retrospectively for the convenience for the state with apparent injustice to the teachers . 
I shall be following that up and we may have to look into it again . 
I cite these two exemplary cases simply to stress the importance of Mrs Grossetête 's report and to thank her personally for her own intervention in the former case which I am sure will move it forward . 
I apologise for the fact that I can not stay to the end of this debate owing to exigencies of transport between here and Edinburgh , but I am delighted to have had the chance of participating so far . 
Madam President , I did not see the incident with regard to the handicapped or disabled people going into the stadium yesterday , or the supposed fracas with the Italian journalists . 
However , I was in Rotterdam all day yesterday , from early morning until late last night and I was at the final . 
I pass on my praise to the French , Italian , Dutch and many other fans who travelled from all over Europe to watch that final . 
On the point that Mr Helmer raised , can he join with me in congratulating Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II on supporting the euro ? 
Madam President , we have just decided to retain the hooliganism motion on the agenda for the debate on topical and urgent subjects . 
I should like to make a particular request to the translation service and indeed those who are speaking to the motion : one of the football teams with which some hooliganism was associated was the team representing England . 
This is all the more important given the known intention of the Scottish Football Association to apply to host the next European Cup but one . 
Madam President , I request that this is not taken as a topical and urgent motion . 
The matter is potentially a very serious one , involving perhaps a breach of Article 10 of the Treaties , and I believe it requires more serious consideration than can be given to a topical and urgent motion on a Thursday afternoon . 
This matter has been drawn to the attention of the Committee on Citizens ' Rights and Freedoms , Justice and Home Affairs , which I have the honour to chair . 
We have received the opinion of the Director of the Monitoring Centre on the matter , we have asked our budget rapporteur to investigate more widely the question of the Austrian government 's attitude to the European Union Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia . 
We need to know the full facts regarding the resignation of Mr Pelinka , the Austrian member of the Centre 's Executive Board . 
It may be that we need to refer the matter to the Group of Three Wise Persons charged with investigating the situation in Austria . 
But a topical and urgent motion would shed more heat than light on the matter , and seems to me to be an inappropriate vehicle . 
Therefore I would appeal to Members to vote against this request . 
( Parliament gave its assent ) The other two requests therefore lapse , and there are no further requests for amendments to the agenda . 
European Council/Portuguese presidency 
Mr President , I speak on yesterday 's Minutes and something which is not in them . 
Yesterday evening I raised two points . 
I do not see that minuted . 
Could you change that please ? 
Mr President , I would like to thank the President-in-Office and the Commissioner for their words and to add my voice to the many who have expressed their shock and horror at this tragic loss of life discovered in Dover . 
The committee which I have the honour to chair has repeatedly made clear its view that we need a European immigration policy . 
This tragedy involving those so desperate to reach our shores - and it is of course no isolated incident - throws into sharp relief the lack of an immigration policy . 
We know that the numbers trying to come to our continent are not in fact increasing over time . 
It is simply that as the legal avenues have closed , so the private sector has moved in to exploit the illegal avenues . 
Last year 's summit in Tampere gave a mandate to the Commission to start moving towards a common policy and I understand from my meeting last week with Mr Chevenement , President-in-Office of the Justice and Home Affairs Council , that the French presidency will launch initiatives to deal with the persons involved , to deal with the transporters of these victims . 
The European Parliament looks forward to being consulted on these initiatives . 
But these are not enough . 
How long will it take for governments to realize that they have no clothes in this matter ? 
How long will it take for them to realize that the criminals are so far ahead of them , and to develop the methods of police cooperation which will put an end to this vile trafficking ? 
I am even tempted to suggest that they might use things like the Echelon system to start fighting against these traffickers , but that might be rather provocative in view of the vote coming up on Thursday . 
The fact is that we should be proud that we have developed a society which is so attractive that people wish to come and join us , but we should perhaps also be rather ashamed that our development aid policy has not been more successful in reducing the push factors in some of the countries of origin . 
Until we succeed - and I recognise the work of the high-level working groups - in reducing these push factors , we ought perhaps to open our doors a little . 
It might even be in our own interest , rejuvenating an ageing population and enriching our own culture . 
I am pleased to hear that Canada is among the countries invited to the presidency 's seminar . 
We might be advised to take a leaf out of Canada 's book . 
The Liberal Government 's proposals there are to close the backdoor to illegal immigration but at the same time open the front door to a legal migration policy . 
Mr President , I am grateful for this opportunity to make some general comments about the 2001 Budget . 
In respect of the fisheries budget , I note that an increase of over 27 % is proposed in the funding of international agreements . 
These are the southern agreements with third countries which enable EU vessels to fish in the waters of Morocco , Mauritania , Argentina and elsewhere . 
I must remind the House that these agreements currently cost EU taxpayers EUR 269 million a year and are primarily of benefit to the fishing fleets of Spain , Portugal and France . 
These southern agreements are always calculated on a cash-for-fish basis while northern agreements on the other hand are arranged on a reciprocal basis . 
It is this disparity between southern and northern Member States which is evident in the CAP as well as in the CFP budget . 
Why then do we discover that it is intended to increase the subsidy to wine growers by 64.5 % next year , taking the budget to over EUR 1 billion ? 
Why is the olive oil industry receiving an 8.9 % increase providing them with almost EUR 2.5 billion next year , and most shockingly of all , how on earth can we justify giving to tobacco growers an increase of 2.8 % taking their subsidies to over EUR 1 billion when we know that tobacco products kill half a million of our citizens every year . 
Meanwhile , the beleaguered dairy sector with dairy farmers suffering across the EU will receive a paltry increase of funding of only 0.3 % . 
Let us make sure the budget is for all EU citizens and not just for the southern EU Member States . 
Mr President , my task is also on behalf of my group , to welcome Amendments Nos 1 to 11 and the spirit in which they were moved by my friend , Mr Wieland . 
These are important points although they are not controversial among us . 
We welcome in particular the extension of training for general practitioners to three years , together with the amendment originally moved by Mrs Gebhardt for lifelong learning for general practitioners . 
The medical associations have been pressing us upon this point and I fully agree with them . 
It is also important as a purely linguistic matter to make sure that gleichwertig is translated as `` equivalent '' and its equivalent words in other European languages . 
I conclude by taking up the point that nothing is more important than that the laws of the European Union should be understandable to its citizens . 
Without that our Community and our Union lack the clarity of purpose which will make them not merely acceptable to , but embraced by , the citizens . 
Therefore all projects of consolidation of law that tend to making the law more readily understood by the citizen and its purposes more lucid to her or him are projects to which we should give our greatest support . 
Mr President , I wish to raise once again the point I raised on Monday and again yesterday with regard to Mr Helmer 's comments in this House . 
Can I say to this House that I understand this must be the first time that Mr Helmer has been speechless . 
Mr President , I welcome this opportunity to give a view from the outside , from Scotland , for the time being part of the UK , where our diet of information about the euro is dominated by a rather lukewarm and unconvincing approach on the part of the Labour government and an almost hysterically anti-euro rhetoric on the part of the Conservatives . 
In contrast my party - the Scottish National Party - recently reaffirmed our position of support in principle for entry to the euro currency and we are not afraid to promote that view . 
Scotland 's traders , from fish processors to farmers , from manufacturers to the tourism sector , are being forced to compete with one hand tied behind their backs . 
Mr Karas acknowledges a high level of support for the euro but also some shortcomings in the provision of information within the euro zone and I support his ideas for addressing that problem . 
But in particular I welcome the fact that this strategy also addresses those Member States not yet taking part in monetary union , since of course we will be affected whether we join in or remain out . 
I call on the UK and Scottish governments to play a full part in that campaign . 
Madam President , my motion is that we hold a vote on this matter . 
The committee which I have the honour to chair examined the STOA report . 
We know quite clearly what the position of the different Members of the House is on this , and the Conference of Presidents has quite rightly presented proposals to us . 
There are clear amendments on our order paper today which deal with that point . 
I move that we now hold a vote on this matter . 
In previous debates here I have supported the principle of having a clear set of rules for appropriate labelling information on beef and beef products . 
My belief is still that our beef production industry , as well as the consumer , has everything to gain from the customer confidence which a sensible compulsory labelling scheme can provide . 
Of course , we must have clear information permitting full traceability from farm to plate . 
There is no doubt or controversy about that , but controversy has surrounded the proposal that category of animal be included . 
In judging the value of label information , I believe that its relevance to food safety must be foremost in our minds . 
In a recent exchange of views within our political Group here in Strasbourg , Commissioner Byrne and his cabinet officials stated quite clearly that there was no food safety benefit arising from the categorisation proposal . 
I can not support its inclusion . 
In relation to country or Member State of origin , could I ask Commissioner Fischler to clarify whether , apart from the compulsory information that we are discussing here , information regarding the area of origin , such as Scotland or the Orkney Islands for example , can be displayed prominently on a voluntary basis ? 
When we recently discussed the research White Paper , we all took the view that it was vital to move forward on this topic because it was important not only to do very good research in Europe , but also to optimise the conditions for its industrial exploitation . 
So on that account I welcome Commissioner Bolkenstein 's statement . 
The word ` centralisation ' is unfortunate in this context because it suggests a single centre of what is already a polycentric community . 
I take it his real meaning is that there will be one court for the whole Community , not that it will necessarily be in a place which will be geographically central . 
Finally , I gather that it is proposed that software might be patented . 
My Group would be very unhappy about such a proposal . 
It seems to us that copyright is the right way to protect software and that introducing patents in this sphere would be unhelpful and contrary to good legal principle . 
We welcome the fact that this is going to be a great spur to innovation and development and the competitiveness of European industry in the future if it does get through the IGC and onto the statute book . 
Following up Mrs Fraisse 's question and your response to that , the borderline must be established as to what is acceptable for patenting and what is not . 
In the biotechnology area there is still this grey area . 
You purported to have reached an absolute decision on this . 
Is there any room for manoeuvre or is that the absolutely determined and settled position of the Commission as you said in your earlier answer ? 
I was impressed by the Commissioner 's balanced response to this question but it does not fit particularly well with the UK Government 's proposal that the secret services - MI5 and MI6 - should perform surveillance of all Internet traffic . 
They intend to demand the surrender of encryption codes and to penalise those who fail to surrender them even if the codes have been lost and are unobtainable . 
Does the Commission consider that this proposal is , firstly , consistent with civil rights , as enunciated for the Community , and , secondly , in the interests of the development of Internet use in the European Union , as rhetorically advocated by everyone , including in particular the British Prime Minister ? 
Mr President , what exactly does the Commission consider to be defined , and I quote from the question , as ` industrial animal-husbandry systems ' . 
Would it not be unreasonable to discourage developing countries from employing modern , efficient , cost-effective and humane systems of animal husbandry ? 
The problem may also be that even where a state formally complies the idea of the structural funds does not make the difference that it should . 
Mr Barnier has said that from 2000 to 2006 there will definitely be an increase in expenditure but nothing guarantees that the state increase in expenditure will be focused on the areas which the Community has taken as targets for structural funding . 
Indeed , Mr Barnier has made it absolutely plain that the Community does not and can not inquire into that point . 
So it seems to me a little bizarre that we spend ages trying to build up exactly correct structural maps in the full knowledge that nothing under the additionality principle actually guarantees that the Member State will increase expenditure in the region in question . 
That does seem to me to be a radical fault in the concept of additionality and one that needs to be reformed . 
Mr President , well , how can I respond to such an attack as that ? 
Can I also say that when Mrs Fontaine spoke to Her Majesty the Queen and obviously put certain questions to her the Queen , in her response , was representing her government , which is a Labour Government . 
That might not suit Mr Helmer , but I am sorry to say that is the way it goes . 
Why did it happen ? 
The ethnic conflict is all about the expulsion from Guadalcanal of 40 000 Malaitans back to their own island , to severe hardship , without any compensation . 
As they did all the work , Guadalcanal is now at a standstill in both rural and urban areas . 
That aid is 25 % of their GDP . 
Outside help will also be needed to regain law and order . 
I should like to finish by thanking the members of the delegation office there who were so helpful to us . 
Mr President , the United States , we recall , is the country of the world which has had , for the longest time , an entrenched and justiciable bill of rights . 
It is therefore a horrible irony that the United States is one of the few countries in the developed world which still retains and practises the use of the death penalty . 
We face today a particular case , that of Derek Rockwell Barnabei : each human being is an individual in her or his own right and must be stood up for as such . 
We appeal for his life today , but he is also a symbol of a practice which we find appalling and which we know to be going on in many parts of the United States . 
I admire them very much , but I am really sad to see that state and its governor practising this so frequently and boasting of it in presidential campaigns . 
The UN responded by passing Resolution 661 to impose sanctions on Iraq . 
In 1994 , Iraq recognised the territorial integrity of Kuwait . 
From 1991 to 1997 , UN inspectors - UNSCOM - systematically and comprehensively inspected , destroyed and verified Iraq 's capacity to produce weapons of mass destruction . 
The UN representative reported to the UN in 1997 that UNSCOM 's work had covered virtually everything about Iraq . 
In 1998 the International Atomic Energy Agency declared that Iraq no longer had a nuclear capacity . 
The oil for food programme started in 1996 has been excessively bureaucratic and incompetent , resulting in long delays in procuring essential medicines and food supplies . 
Of the USD 28 billion worth of oil revenue over three years , only USD 7 billion has been utilised for imports and USD 12 billion remains frozen in a bank in New York . 
The intellectual embargo has deprived doctors , teachers and other professionals of the advances in science and technology . 
These diplomats share the view of the UN Office in Iraq , WHO , Red Cross , and other NGOs that the EU can , through its diplomacy , achieve a breakthrough . 
Our parliamentarians and Commission officials should go on fact-finding missions to Iraq to meet members of the Iraqi Parliament , EU diplomats , international agencies and NGOs . 
Such dialogue will help to establish the facts as they are today and help identify how this deadlock can be broken so that sanctions can be lifted for non-military suppliers . 
I hope that this House will vote in favour of this resolution . 
I have every sympathy with this desire but the amendment is superfluous as Article 137 ( 2 ) of the Treaty clearly states that `` directives in the social field including Health and Safety shall avoid imposing administrative , financial and legal constraints in a way which would hold back the creation and development of SMEs . '' 
I believe therefore that the sentiments expressed in the amendment are already covered and it is unnecessary to repeat this in the report . 
Mr President , in this group we welcome the Peijs report and we welcome the Commission 's stance to which it is responding . 
It is indeed true that short sea shipping is environmentally friendly and cost-effective , and it is indeed true that it supports the economic development of maritime regions ; but we in Scotland call upon the Commission , therefore , to get its act together in respect of the forthcoming liberalisation of sea transport in the west of Scotland . 
As Mrs Attwooll has just pointed out , we not only have island transport there but also important short sea links across what we call sea lochs and the geologists call fjords , where instead of going 150 kilometres up a narrow road over a mountain pass , you can take a boat across a narrow water . 
In the same way , one could then take a holistic look at the package of routes across the west of Scotland , instead of breaking it up , inviting cherry-picking by private entrepreneurs who come in to take the few paying routes and make it harder to sustain the routes which are not profitable all the year round . 
We want a holistic look at that kind of thing throughout Europe , we want an imaginative approach by the Commission . 
It is six weeks since I put a question to the Commission asking if it would treat the peninsulas as equivalent to islands . 
Earlier it had claimed intimate knowledge of the west of Scotland . 
Mr President , to visitors from afar , the sea crossing to the Scottish islands is the stuff of romance , and indeed the beauty never fails to move both native and visitor . 
But for those who live and make their living there , the island shipping services are both an essential lifeline and a costly hurdle to be overcome for their economic and social well-being . 
The costs that impede are not only the fares , difficult as those often are , but also the inconvenience of pre-booking , of waiting in queues , of fitting in with timetables which provide low and variable frequencies ; and then there are the risks of delays and cancellation due to weather or mechanical breakdown , or strikes which hold the islands to ransom from time to time . 
There is considerable concern on the Scottish islands at the moment that the EU 's competition policy , which requires putting these services out to competitive tender , will undermine these lifeline services even at their present level and add a further upward ratchet to the cost of living and of doing business . 
We need to reassure those who live and work on these vulnerable islands and remote peninsulas that they have nothing to fear from bringing a measure of competition into the process for awarding these contracts . 
Can I ask the Commission to do what it can to reassure the Scottish islands , the Scottish executive that is struggling with this situation at the moment and the Scottish Parliament , that it stands ready to make sure that this process works well , that it does not undermine but improves the shipping services in the Scottish islands . 
Perhaps through Commission Verheugen I can pass an invitation to the Transport Commissioner , his colleague , Mrs de Palacio , to accompany me on a romantic trip to the Scottish islands . 
Mr President , we very much welcome these two positive reports and congratulate the rapporteurs and fully support the vital importance of the MEDA programme . 
In this respect it is critically important that the funding should be properly applied . 
I would urge the House to support the two amendments tabled to the Piétrasanta report in the name of this group . 
Our amendment urges the Member State parliaments which have not yet ratified the agreement to hasten this process . 
Our other amendment refers to a degree of hypocrisy in our approach to developing a fully free-trade zone in the Mediterranean area . 
As Mr Valdivielso pointed out in his speech , the EU has a large trade surplus with this area . 
Yes , we call for a free-trade zone but when it comes to those products which these countries could most readily export into Europe - i.e. agricultural and food products - we maintain trade restrictions . 
Our friends in these countries understandably question our sincerity . 
I accept that free access to Europe for Mediterranean products poses problems for producers in our southern Member States , but surely this problem could be compensated at least to some extent in the CAP . 
So our second amendment calls for the acceleration of progress to free trade for all products including food and agriculture . 
I would appreciate the Commission 's estimate as to the likely timing for achieving a full free-trade zone in the Mediterranean and how it intends to implement this . 
I would urge my colleagues to support these amendments along with the two excellent reports under consideration . 
Mr President , as somebody keen on helping countries to create jobs and transfer technology , I have to say that the ECIP programme is extremely good and , in principle , that was the objective . 
But as my colleague and friend , Mrs Theato , has mentioned , it is full of worms . 
It is almost as if the project was a wonderful , beautifully-wrapped box of chocolates , but inside was absolutely packed with worms . 
If you look at Facility 1 , it grants up to EUR 100 000 for simply identifying a potential joint venture . 
So , clearly , when you look at Facilities 2 , 3 , 4 and 1b , you soon realise that the work was not done by somebody who was a banker , but by somebody who perhaps was a bureaucrat and knew nothing about finance and lending to projects which could be viable . 
In short , I would say if such an instrument is ever to be invented and devised , it should be done with bankers and industrialists , people who know what they are talking about , not bureaucrats sitting in the European Commission . 
Therefore , the sooner this project is wound up and the European Union saves money that is being wasted , the better . 
I feel very strongly that such investment projects should be very carefully thought out with input from industry and bankers so that maximum jobs are created where they are needed and where there is wide coverage and public accountability and transparency . 
When I was a member of the Budgetary Control Committee and met the people who were managing this project , I was not at all impressed with the knowledge that they had of running such an enterprise , and I come from an industrial and financial background . 
Mr President , I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Klamt , who was the original rapporteur designated by the committee which I have the honour to chair to look at this issue . 
I wish to congratulate her on that . 
I would like to commend the European Commission on what is an extremely well argued and well presented report , drawn up in record time considering the relative lack of resources of the departments concerned and the demands laid down at the European Council in Tampere last year . 
The Commission has come forward with an excellent draft directive which will permit third-country nationals legally resident in a Member State of the Union to reside in another Member State as is required if a true area of freedom , security and justice is to be established . 
The Commission has said , quite rightly in my view , that the goal of zero immigration mentioned in past Community discussion was never realistic and sought instead to put forward realistic proposals for the protection of the rights of third-country nationals in accordance with the many international treaties that have been signed by Member States , such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the international covenants of 1966 on civil and political rights and on economic and social rights . 
We have in my committee considered a number of contentious areas , not least the question of the right to bring in ascending relatives . 
The Commission proposal quite clearly recognises the difference of legal treatment between descending and ascending relatives . 
There is no similar convention dealing with ascending relatives , but it is clearly the case that if we wish to live up to our humanitarian ideals we must provide the opportunity for third-country nationals to bring dependent relatives in the ascending line into their family units . 
This has been a matter of some debate within the committee . 
I am pleased to see that a number of amendments to the final report have been put forward ; in particular Amendments Nos 18 to 23 , which propose a compromise on this matter . 
May I briefly introduce some of the amendments that the committee 's report puts forward . 
Amendment No 3 looks at the need for data and recognises that in order to have an effective evaluation of the situation in the Member States , the Commission will need more information from the Member States . 
Amendment No 5 deals with relatives from the ascending line . 
This has now been overtaken in a sense by the compromise Amendments Nos 18 to 23 . 
Amendment No 6 recognises the very real problems that the administrations of the Member States currently have with the workload created by the demands of family reunification . 
Amendment No 9 allows each Member State to introduce more favourable provisions than those set down in the directives , and insists that these new rules will not lower current standards of protection . 
Amendment No 11 deals with the grounds on which a Member State may deny the right of entry to a relative , namely on grounds of public policy , domestic security and public health . 
Our amendment seeks to insist that any Member State wishing to refuse entry on those grounds provides very clear justification . 
I do not wish to comment on all of the 66 amendments put forward to my report , but I would say that this is a very complicated area . 
Parliament had relatively little time to look at it and inevitably not all of the compromises which were necessary to reach a favourable outcome were achieved in committee . 
I would therefore urge Members to look carefully at the amendments that have been tabled in plenary to reach the compromises which will allow us to go forward in an effective and humanitarian way . 
Madam President , can I impose on your goodwill and Parliament 's goodwill for a moment in welcoming to the diplomatic gallery a delegation from Kazakhstan ? 
They are in Parliament today and tomorrow to raise awareness of the former Soviet empire 's nuclear testing programme which impacted not just severely but hugely on their country . 
They had 607 nuclear explosions in the atmosphere between 1949 and 1990 . 
They have a huge problem in raising world awareness of this former Soviet problem . 
We shall also be discussing the problems of the submarine that sank , another part of the nuclear legacy that has been left by the Soviet Union . 
Madam President , I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would advise us which of the amendments which have been adopted this morning he will accept before the final vote on the legislative resolution . 
This is an emotive subject , not least because of the title ` Human cloning ' . 
So let us get some facts straight . 
Fact : human reproductive cloning is banned in the UK . 
There is no intention to change this and the UK industry has no intention of carrying out human reproductive cloning now or in the future . 
The research use of embryonic stem cells is a short-term response to a scientific need to discover ways of reprogramming adult cells . 
Fact : stem cell research is tightly regulated under a stringent act of Parliament by the highly respected and rigorous Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority . 
It would perhaps be a good idea if other Member States were to have something similar . 
Fact : there have recently been interesting advances in adult stem cell research , but there still remain significant disadvantages compared with the unique characteristics of embryonic stem cells . 
The aim of research in embryonic stem cells is to find ways of using adult stem cells which overcome these disadvantages . 
Rightly or wrongly , the UK and the US legislation have permitted this type of research for ten years and many benefits have resulted . 
And after consulting world-wide for many months the Donaldson report recommends extending such research for therapeutic purposes . 
The choice is yours , colleagues . 
You have to be true to your conscience and your faith but also consider the future well-being of your neighbour . 
Is the Commissioner aware of research at the Scottish Crop Research Institute in Invergowrie near Dundee that shows that tobacco plants can be genetically modified to accept the implanting for multiplication of potential anti-cancer vaccines ? 
It is quite ironic really . 
Would it not be desirable to redirect the European tobacco-growing industry towards such benign purposes and to further promote this type of research ? 
Mr President , at the present time the United Kingdom has rates of fuel duty which are spectacularly higher than in other parts of the European Union . 
One of the effects of this is particularly detrimental to the peripheral parts of the country . 
It has a disproportionately distorting effect on competition , affecting local firms in the periphery competing against large multinationals in the UK . 
That is an important caveat to put down about ways in which fuel taxes can distort local economies . 
I do not think there is a good environmental argument for trying to drive most of the population of the United Kingdom into the bottom south-east corner . 
I did not enter politics to repeat the Highland clearances . 
I have considerable reservations about how this will work in practice , but we should welcome the principle that Mrs Lucas has put forward . 
Mr President , over one hundred years ago , European colonial powers divided tribal lands in Africa to establish national boundaries . 
African countries inherited the legacy of tribal conflict as major tribes sought to dominate national politics . 
Some examples are the Afars and Issas in Djibouti , the Kikuyu and Luo in Kenya and the Hutu and Tutsi in Rwanda and Burundi . 
I believe the EU has to focus on how the ruling elite , the Tutsis in Burundi , can be persuaded to reconcile and cooperate with the majority Hutu to achieve peace . 
The EU must insist that neighbouring countries do not interfere in Burundi and EU aid to them should be conditional on their cooperation . 
Mr President , I hope I will not strike too discordant a note , but it seems to me this debate has been excessively self-congratulatory so far . 
When I picked up the agenda and read the phrase ` Year of Lifelong Learning ' it seemed to me that this was an oxymoron similar to the phrase ` military intelligence ' . 
A year seems a short time for the project . 
I have been at the receiving end of such systems , both as a university teacher and when I was involved in an educational and social charity . 
From the point of view of people trying to do the job , these challenges , at very short notice and with very little explanation of how applications are to be made and what criteria are to be applied , can do at least as much harm as good . 
One can always point to the fact afterwards that the money was spent and other money came in and that good things have been achieved ; but could things have been done better ? 
Both the Committee reports - the Committee report and the subsidiary Committee opinion - draw attention to the fact that the assessment methodology used by the Commission was not very exact and the criteria set were not particularly clear . 
This is not to say we should not do these things , but we should do them better and reflect very carefully on what can best be done at Community level and what at lower levels , not even at Member State level or in autonomous regions within the Member States , but right down at the level of schools , colleges and universities . 
My constituency has just come through a serious crisis in its educational assessment , partly due to a lack of proper consultation with classroom teachers . 
Networking can be useful in disseminating ideas for best practice , but we must not delude ourselves that a Year of Lifelong Learning will make a real difference . 
That can only come from the commitment of the people on the ground . 
Those are the people we must respect and encourage and support . 
We are all in favour of lifelong learning , but let us not be too self-congratulatory when the evidence is so thin . 
Mr President , paragraph 16 of Mrs Gutiérrez-Cortines ' excellent report calls for training designed to correct school failures . 
It would be far better if we could avoid that sort of failure . 
The saddest case of all is a school leaver with no qualifications to his credit descending into hopelessness . 
A situation which becomes sadder and sadder as the occupations available to those with no qualifications become scarcer and scarcer . 
The reason is often that the young teenager is discouraged from learning by the rigidities of an education system that sticks to established lines and tries to fit square pegs into round holes . 
I appeal to the Commission to look favourably on a research programme into the use and development of aptitude tests to identify at an early stage - 12 or 13 years old at the latest - what a young person is going to be good at , no matter what that profession , occupation or job may be . 
Schools have to respond by providing courses at which young people will succeed . 
Nothing is more vital to the future of Europe than the young people who are going to build that Europe . 
There is not one young person who can not play his part . 
We have to enable this sadly wasted potential to be mobilised and to succeed . 
Mr President , the Commission ' s plans to slash export refunds will cost the EU ' s food and drink processors an estimated EUR 145 million per year . 
It is particularly galling that the decision to impose these cuts was taken without consultation with this House . 
It is astonishing that the Commission chose to single out German fruit yoghurt , Scotch whisky and pharmaceutical products for these cuts , apparently for no better reason than the belief that these are wealthy industries which do not deserve assistance . 
The cuts are damaging to EU industry and they will destroy the competitive advantage of our agri-foodstuffs sector and they will destroy jobs . 
The Commission ' s scheme to compensate food processors for losing out on export refunds , by encouraging them to seek inward processing relief on a range of commodities from outside the EU , is both muddle-headed and inept . 
Not only does the scheme encourage processors to import grain and other raw materials from outside the EU - once again to the direct disadvantage of our beleaguered farmers - but it also involves a mountain of red tape and bureaucratic complexity which will virtually exclude SMEs from this scheme . 
The Commission must devise a new system . 
Those food and drink exporters who through adding value to their products , constitute a vitally important part of the EU agricultural economy must receive alternative compensation exactly equivalent to the value of the export refunds they have lost . 
To do otherwise will place EU food processors at a massive competitive disadvantage on world markets . 
This deliberate attack on non-Annex - I export refunds further undermines our farmers who are suffering their worst recession in decades . 
It is also a direct attack on the fastest growing export sector within the EU , our processed food sector . 
We are committed to 36 % reduction of export refunds over six years and we are nearing the end of that period under our obligations in the GATT Uruguay Round Agreement . 
However , these cuts should not be targeted in such an arbitrary manner on a small number of industries , as the Commission has chosen to do . 
Access to IPR offers only a very unsatisfactory and temporary solution . 
I congratulate Mr Souchet in drawing up a good report in the face of Commission intransigence on this issue . 
He is fundamentally correct in describing the Commission proposal as a temporary measure . 
There is no doubt that the whole system now needs to be dismantled and rebuilt in a much more sensible and less complex manner , in line with our WTO and GATT requirements . 
During the debate late last night there were at least ten speakers who all raised points very critical of the Commission . 
I felt very sorry for Commissioner Nielson who had to respond as duty Commissioner and who read out about half a page prepared by Commissioner Liikanen . 
Clearly this is very complex subject and Mr Nielson did not appear to really know what the Commission position was . 
That is why we are now in this situation of sending this back to committee . 
This a very unsatisfactory way of doing business . 
It was like a dialogue of the deaf last night . 
It is not a satisfactory way of proceeding for Members to be here late at night , making very critical points and receiving a non-response of this nature . 
Motion for a resolution ( B5-0766 / 2000 ) by Baroness Ludford on behalf of the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs on the European Union ' s position at the 2001 World Conference Against Racism 
Madam President , the House kindly agreed on 16 November to a request from the committee which I have the honour to chair to delay the final vote on Mr Cashman 's proposed legislative resolution . 
That delay was intended to allow time for the other institutions to consider our amendments and for the Commission to formulate amended proposals . 
Since our November part-session , we have had contacts with the other institutions , though as yet no agreement has been forthcoming . 
Therefore , we would ask the House for a prorogation of the delay of a maximum of two months in order to conclude the dialogue and , we hope , present to you compromise amendments for voting at our part-session on 28 February . 
Mr President , there is indeed a crisis of succession in farming as Mr Parish with his expertise as a farmer knows well . 
I thank the Commissioner for his answer but would ask the Commission to explain the obvious lack of coherence between its and the Council 's politically declared will to promote the biotechnological industry and the measures taken , which endanger the very existence of this industry . 
This aid is very laudable on the one hand , but , could it not also be letting the Indonesian Government off the hook ; and should we really not use the political and economic strength of the European Union to force the Indonesian Government to look after its own citizens , especially this Christian minority ? 
Mr President , Commissioner , it was inevitable that the Gallagher and Poignant reports would not only comment on the past but would focus in detail on the CFP review , and I consider it entirely appropriate that the MEPs should seek to influence the review process in advance of any formal consultation with Parliament . 
I contend that the principal objective of the CFP , namely the conservation of fish stocks , has not been realised and as a result we have had to face dramatic year-on-year fluctuations in quotas , as exemplified by the current cod crisis . 
In addition , we must re-examine the process by which , and the level at which , decisions are made . 
Various amendments tabled with my name attached seek to establish certain important principles for the CFP review , including that relative stability should remain since the good reasons for its inclusion as a founding principle remain valid . 
That in the light of experience with areas like the Shetland Box , specially protected areas based on scientific advice should continue in the future . 
And a system of zonal management should be established based on the ICES areas and with representation from fishing , science and conservation interests able to participate meaningfully , not to renationalise the CFP , not to take away power from the Council or the Commission but to allow each Member State with quotas in a particular zone to assist in devising and recommending controls which are relevant , appropriate to these areas and , therefore , more likely to succeed . 
Recent events have led to even greater lack of faith within Scotland in the decision-making processes and in the structure of the CFP itself . 
How can , for example , the Commission justify continuing levels of industrial fishery and even increases in white fish by-catch while on the other hand reducing quotas of fish for human consumption ? 
Let us use the opportunities arising from the review of the CFP to achieve a solution which works . 
I challenge the Commission and the Council to look seriously at zonal management within a framework of Community-wide objectives , of course , but so that interested parties can participate more fully and so that the new CFP , once agreed , can actually achieve its purpose , namely the long-term sustainability of European fisheries . 
Mr President , when we discuss the excellent reports by my colleagues Mr Varela , Mr Cunha , Mr Poignant and Mr Gallagher , it is against a background of crisis in the EU fisheries sector . 
As we contemplate the radical reforms of the CFP , which are clearly necessary and long overdue and which are highlighted in these reports , we do so in the knowledge that fish stocks are in spiral decline . 
Too many fishermen are chasing too few fish . 
As a result , EU fishing fleets are shrinking and many thousands of jobs are being lost at sea and on shore . 
The situation in the North Sea is of particular concern . 
I am extremely grateful , like my colleagues , the other Scottish MEPs , to Commissioner Fischler for agreeing to meet us earlier this evening to discuss these dramatic emergency measures . 
We welcome Mr Fischler 's generous offer to meet with leaders of the industry to discuss alternatives to the draconian proposals which have been widely publicised by the Fisheries DG in the last few days . 
A sensible , multiannual cod recovery plan embracing realistic technical conservation measures , the closure of cod spawning grounds and the decommissioning of the larger new fishing vessels will surely be more sensible than the pursuit of a plan which would allow industrial fishing to continue in vast restricted zones and which would potentially lead to the bankruptcy of half the Scottish fleet . 
The Poignant and Gallagher reports have attracted some amendments , which seek to do away with the 6/12 mile limits and break open the Shetland Box and gain free access to the North Sea . 
Clearly there are some Member States that still regard the resources of the North Sea as a rich prize . 
I hope that this debate may bring them to their senses . 
The reform of the CFP and the forthcoming launch of the Green Paper mark a critical time for the fishing industry . 
On the one hand all of us here in this Chamber want to see the existence of the fishing industry , not least because we enjoy eating the product ; but on the other hand we are faced with grave scientific evidence of depleting fish stocks , so much so that certain species may no longer exist in the future . 
In Scotland , as mentioned this evening by many of my Scottish colleagues , the issue of cod is dominating the news agenda . 
Some say that even before the launch of the Green Paper there could be little left of the Scottish fleet because of cuts in TACs , quotas and the proposed cod recovery proposals . 
Others say that in order to have a fishing industry at all we need to conserve , they hark back to the 1996 article in Nature warning of the collapse of cod stocks . 
I really do not know how you square the circle , but by the end of 2002 we must . 
From talking to people in the industry , those involved in scientific research and those involved in conservation , it seems there is a willingness to be involved and a need for greater participation of all those concerned . 
In Scotland , the Scottish Fishermen 's Federation and the WWF have joined forces and suggested a better way of working . 
The proposal for zonal management and greater regionalisation of the CFP is a serious one that has the support of fishing and conservation groups alike . 
Ideally I would have preferred a total ban in view of the very high probability that they cause indiscriminate damage to health . 
I further deplore them on account of their unacceptable impact on the human and natural environment more widely . 
That is very important and it should be known that the United Kingdom Conservative Party was among those parties that voted for the provision that names should be on the ballot , not off the ballot . 
Mr President , Members who have been elected to this House have been elected by people of Europe to speak for Europe , to determine what role Europe can play on the international scene . 
I am encouraged by the statement of Mr Danielsson , the confidence of Mr Solana and the excellent analysis of Commissioner Patten of the situation on the ground . 
I was horrified to witness in the delegation last week the extent to which Palestine is a military occupation . 
People of Europe have no idea of this . 
It is unbelievable that there is a situation where the Palestinian Legislative Council can not even meet . 
Mayors of towns like Hebron were not able to escort us to places that our ambassador had arranged for us to see . 
Therefore , I believe that we in the European Union should take a more active role : supportive - not to replace the Americans in the peace process - but to support and give confidence to both sides that we are a fair , just , impartial broker . 
We should also support the United Nations and the resolutions , because if UN resolutions are to be respected by countries like Iraq and Cuba , then they must also be respected by Israel and the Palestinians . 
That is something that I hope Mr Solana and the Council will impress on both sides : if there are international agreements where there is international law , then both sides should abide by them . 
Madam President , I protest against the rather intemperate remarks of Mr Balfe . 
There is no power under Scottish law to keep people locked up just as long as it suits you . 
The arrests that took place at Faslane today were in accordance with the law , and I do not doubt that the persons concerned will be speedily released . 
It is very important that my colleague , Mrs Lucas , should have the opportunity in this House to raise the issue of whether her immunity extends to this case , given that there is serious doubt - already raised and tested in the Scottish courts - about the lawfulness of the nuclear weapons kept on Scottish soil . 
The Irish Sea , as Mrs Langenhagen has said , is an example to us all of how a stock , if not managed correctly , can be decimated . 
In just six years the amount of cod caught in the Irish Sea has halved . 
In 1993 , 11 000 tonnes of cod was caught and in 1999 , 5 500 tonnes were caught . 
This regulation for 2001 is necessary , however painful , if there is to be a cod fisheries at all in the Irish Sea . 
It is an example to other areas as well . 
Vast stretches of the North Sea have been protected whilst the spawning season gets under way . 
However , another consequence of the ban in cod fisheries over the next few months has been that the other areas where there is no ban are beginning to worry . 
For example , in the Western Isles fishermen are concerned that because of the cod ban in the North Sea - and to some extent in the Irish Sea - cod stocks off the Butt of Lewis and south of Barra will be adversely effected . 
After years of sustainable fisheries in these waters people fear that the adverse effect of these protective measures will be a decimation of their own stocks . 
These fears can only be compounded when just last week in Mallaig , with the opening of the scallop beds , a dramatic increase in boats could be witnessed , which would otherwise have been fishing for the banned species . 
We have to think about the adverse effects on other fisheries when protective measures are introduced . 
It is somewhat ironic that in protecting fish stocks in one area we are inadvertently destroying stocks in another area . 
In conclusion , the reform of the common fisheries policy and the launch of the Green Paper in March are critical to stock preservation and to the fishing industry . 
We have to get the balance right between sustainability and a successful industry on the other hand . 
The reform of the common fisheries policy , I believe , is an opportunity . 
We must make sure that we get the reforms right . 
I thank the rapporteur in his absence . 
Mr President , in his report on the Irish Sea fishery Mr Nicholson recognises that this area has the dubious honour of pioneering the use of emergency measures to arrest the decline in cod stocks . 
But in the North Sea , too , we are subject to emergency measures this year , necessary measures aimed at maximum protection of cod during the spawning period between now and the end of April . 
Why is it then that , after so many years of a common fisheries policy whose principal intention is to conserve stocks , we have to resort to emergency measures in the Irish and North Sea cod areas ? 
While accepting the need for these short-term measures , we must also learn from past mistakes and prepare sensible long-term management proposals to try to deal with these situations . 
The technical measures which have been pioneered in areas like Scotland must be built on and improved and extended to all areas of fishery . 
Appropriate action must be taken to prevent the displacement of effort leading to damage in other areas and to other stocks . 
The impact of industrial fishery must be properly assessed , in terms both of its allowable white fish by-catch , and of its effect on the whole marine food chain . 
Clearly a significant downturn in fishing activity can be expected in the next few years , and clearly with that significant downturn in activity will come a significant downturn in the income of many families and many communities in our fishing areas , both in the catching sector and in processing . 
Just as the economic and social effects of the lack of a new agreement with Morocco have been felt in very particular areas , so the effects of these emergency measures in the long-term cod recovery plans will have an effect in very particular areas . 
There is a case for looking at similar financial compensation measures for these areas . 
The CFP review provides a challenge and an opportunity . 
Mr President , Mr Nicholson 's report underlines the serious crisis now affecting fish stocks in the waters around Britain and Ireland . 
The very fact that the Commission has found it necessary to implement emergency measures in four separate areas to save exhausted fish stocks , serves to illustrate the total failure of the common fisheries policy . 
As of today , 12 February 2001 , more that 40 000 square miles of the North Sea will be closed for 12 weeks to all white fish trawling . 
Over two million tonnes of fish a year , 25 % of the total fish catch in the EU , are discarded in this manner . 
This latest round of cuts and emergency measures will again drive hundreds more out of the industry . 
The cod recovery measures in the Irish Sea last year cost the Irish Sea fleet a devastating drop in income of 42 % during the closed season . 
Despite this appalling crisis , despite the fact that there are too many fishermen chasing too few fish around the North Sea and the Irish Sea , this House voted overwhelmingly at its last part-session in January to do away with 6 and 12-mile limits around our shores , to open equal access to the North Sea and to break into the Shetland and Irish boxes . 
These decisions will be regarded by many fishermen in the UK and Ireland as the last straw . 
Sixty-five per cent of the entire fishing resources of the EU are to be found in the waters surrounding the British Isles , that is the UK and Ireland . 
Why should we sit back and allow our fish to be plundered and allow our fishermen to be impoverished ? 
It was extremely foolish and short-sighted of this House to vote the way it did on the reports last month . 
It may well prove to be the last straw that breaks the camel 's back and may drive the UK out of the common fisheries policy . 
Mr President , the Commission President has told us that the institutions must be responsible , transparent and efficient and he has promised to bring forward a White Paper on governance . 
If we need to improve the quality of governance of the Union , we might make a start with the Commission 's work programme itself . 
We should be focusing policy-making on areas where EU-wide action is indispensable . 
We should be ensuring that the principle of subsidiarity is fully respected . 
Is this really the case with the Commission 's recommendation on a common European format for curriculum vitaes : No 379 on their list of measures to implement this year ? 
Each new legislative proposal should include a justification of why action at Union level is necessary and we might help , as my colleague Mr Clegg has suggested , by establishing a standing scrutiny committee in this House to ensure that measures proposed meet the criteria for subsidiarity and proportionality . 
Your state of the Union speech , Mr Prodi , should be accompanied by a detailed list of proposals individually justified and explained , not hidden away in annexes to the document . 
Finally , the annual work programme should come to a vote here in Parliament . 
Nice showed the failures of intergovernmental Europe . 
It is up to us to make a more persuasive case for a federal Europe . 
Mr President , it is a great privilege to take part in this important debate . 
I am a bit sad that the tone of the debate has been in part negative and guarded . 
We need to remember that new communication media have in fact liberated interaction between people and ideas and between people and people . 
Of course , that does give rise to some reasonable concerns about the protection of legitimate copyright interests in this age . 
Meeting these concerns must not result in obstructing the ordinary person , the scholar or the scientist from accessing and using materials that are subject to copyright . 
The balance between producer interest and consumer interest has been stressed in this debate and is the balance that we have to try and strike . 
If we in the Union were to strike the wrong balance , it would seriously inhibit the democratic openness of discussion that the Internet and related media facilitate . 
The draft directive before us refers critically in Article 5.5 to the well-established restraints on fair practice that are enshrined in the Berne Convention . 
As an author myself , I yield to no one in maintaining the rights of authors and performers - I add `` performers '' deliberately - to fair recognition and reward , but these values will be misapplied if they are used as a ground for obstructing reasonable limitations on commercial copyright interests and , I stress `` the commercial interests '' , which we need to differentiate from the moral right of the author , which is expressly excluded from this directive . 
Like others , I am delighted with Mr Boselli 's work and I hope that we will pass this with relatively few changes . 
Mr President , can I ask the Commissioner specifically : are bones for soup stock other than the vertebrae and skull perfectly safe and all right to use ? 
Is osso buco , which I think is made from the shank of cattle , all right to eat and is oxtail , which is actually I suppose an extension of the vertebrae , all right to eat ? 
Mr President , earlier today we heard in the context of the copyright and GMO legislation how it has taken three years for Parliament to reach the point of being in a position to approve it . 
Can I say that this report has been under negotiation for nine years and it is only now coming to fruition . 
Since I took over the rapporteurship of this report I have tried to involve all the interested parties from the manufacturing side right through to the user side . 
On the manufacturing side , I have had several meetings with the European constructors ' association as well as individual bus companies . 
I would also pay tribute to the shadow rapporteurs who worked with me closely throughout the compiling of this report . 
Unfortunately not all of them were able to persuade their groups to follow the line . 
In Amendment No 6 I am seeking to replace that with Amendment No 10 which refers to the ISO standard and not to separate Member State standards which I had initially put in Amendment No 6 . 
Amendment No 4 sets out in more detail the user groups that this report is trying to assist . 
This list is , however , neither exhaustive nor prescriptive . 
Amendment No 8 opens up access to public transport to all those groups referred to in the aforementioned Amendment No 4 . 
For the first time , we are making public transport accessible to all those people with reduced mobility . 
This will be done by providing a kneeling system with either a lift or ramp but it also takes into account infrastructure improvements which have been carried out as well . 
Maybe I should declare an interest at this point . 
Just before Christmas my mother unexpectedly lost her sight . 
As a son I obviously wish to help her , as I wish to help all visually impaired people within the European Union . 
It is what I was elected to do and I am sure it is what the vast majority of people in this Parliament were elected to do . 
We have that chance tomorrow by voting for those amendments . 
I must , however , also mention Amendment No 9 which was submitted later by the PPE-DE Group . 
When this came up at the Legal Affairs Committee it went through unanimously but then , all of a sudden , we heard that the PPE-DE Group wishes to reject the common position . 
That is shackling , not what we are trying to do with the industry . 
I would be ashamed if their Amendment No 9 is carried . 
I would be ashamed for every Member of this Parliament who puts their hand up or presses a button to vote for that amendment . 
I therefore urge you to vote against Amendment No 9 but support the other amendments . 
Mr President , in welcoming my brave and gallant colleague , Mrs Lucas , back to the House , I would like to draw to my colleagues ' attention that today we will also be visited by the Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland ; who will be received by the President this evening . 
I ask Members to note that the leader of the Scottish national church , whom we will welcome here tonight , also took a leading part in that protest . 
Leading an ecumenical service , he drew attention to the Church 's principled rejection of states ' reliance on weapons of mass destruction . 
Profound opposition to nuclear weapons on both legal and moral grounds is a common position among responsible leaders of opinion , both religious and non-religious , throughout Scotland and throughout this great Union . 
Mr President , to pick up on the points that Mrs Lucas has raised , I support the sentiments which she has outlined . 
However , I would ask if she could prevail upon her colleagues to desist from claiming some sort of parliamentary immunity every time she gets arrested at Faslane . 
Long before Mrs Lucas became involved , I had been involved in Faslane for many years and have been arrested there . 
I have never once called for parliamentary immunity . 
I had my day in court and I had my trial . 
I will not go down the road to parliamentary immunity because I want my day in court and I want to make my point and not hide behind some smokescreen . 
Mr President , my point also relates to the Minutes . 
I wonder if it might be recorded on page 11 in the English version of the Minutes , at Item 8 where we talk about voting time , that the votes commenced at 12.12 p.m. . 
They were advertised on the screen as commencing at 12.15 p.m. and for that reason some of us missed some of the early votes . 
Madam President , I am grateful for the opportunity to speak in the name of my group . 
Yesterday in the debate , constraints of time meant that none of us were able to speak , but this is a proposal which we have supported wholeheartedly in committee and which we supported wholeheartedly today . 
I was particularly glad that Amendment No 9 was defeated and that we carried the directive substantially in the form in which it left the Legal Affairs Committee under the able guidance of the rapporteur , Mr Miller . 
This is a long-awaited directive and it is extremely important to disabled people . 
Our own disability intergroup has been campaigning on it for a long time and so has the European Disability Movement . 
It has taken nine years to get this far . 
What we are accomplishing are secure , minimum safety standards for the design of buses operating in Europe and secure basic requirements to ensure access for disabled people and others with reduced mobility , including older people - Mr Fatuzzo and others no doubt - and parents with children using urban buses . 
This is really important . 
My group wishes to declare its solidarity with all those who will be assisted by this . 
One of the marks of enhanced civilisation in my lifetime has been the far greater attention that we pay in public places and public activities to ensuring that our fellow citizens , who have the grave misfortune to suffer from one or other kind of disability or handicap , are fully admitted to public life in our societies . 
We can be proud of that and glad that this directive has been passed . 
Mr President , thank you for allowing me to put a supplementary question on behalf of my colleague , Mr MacCormick , who is accompanying the Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland on an official visit here to Parliament today . 
Mr President-in-Office , do you accept that this is a new and profoundly oppressive instance of the subordination of women and their seclusion into private life ? 
For many years women in Afghanistan enjoyed a fully public existence , participating in the professions and in the world of work and dressing appropriately . 
Sometimes it is said that appeals to human rights involve imposing western values on non-western cultures . 
That is false , and this particular case in Afghanistan shows it to be so . 
Does the Council agree that what is needed is a restitution of women 's human rights and of the fundamental respect that they are due ? 
Surely more is needed than has been offered in the statement today . 
The oft-recited Lisbon Summit sets the overall objective of `` making the European Union the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy in the world '' . 
All these pressures , often exacerbated by weak responses by governments and public bodies , are threatening our ability in Europe to realise the great potential which biotechnology offers us . 
Certainly , a reasonable level of regulation is necessary but this must be directed towards encouraging rather than discouraging advances . 
Only within such a positive environment will it be possible to realise this potential and be competitive in the industries of the future , in the agriculture of the future , in the highest standards of healthcare , in our contribution to third world development and the elimination of starvation and disease . 
Mr President , I would like to join Mr Dupuis and Mrs Iivari in expressing our sense of deep solidarity with Lao exiles who are here today , and even more with dissidents who are detained in prison without trial and in intolerable circumstances in Laos itself . 
On behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance who are in Parliament - and , I am sure , in a spirit in which the whole Parliament joins - we very much wish to express our support for the liberation of Laos . 
We call for this to be done in the name of human liberty and solidarity . 
We must do all that we can to bring this to an end . 
We want to see the speeding-up of the process that will lead to reintegration of displaced persons and the return of refugees to their country of origin . 
Mr President , I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Gemelli on having had his report adopted unanimously by the Committee on Development and Cooperation . 
It deserves the same accolade from the House . 
It is fair to say there was considerable input from all the political parties in this House , as Mr Gemelli accepted a number of amendments during the committee stage . 
It lays down the foundation for development policy for the coming decade . 
Some of the statistics it throws up are frightening in their nature , for instance the number of people under the age of 15 in developing countries ; the utter poverty in which most of them live ; the scourge of diseases such as AIDS , malaria and TB ; the huge and widening gap between developed and developing nations ; the predictions , which I believe will never be reached in the timescales laid down . 
Lastly , there is the enormity of the task we face as a European Union to help eradicate these problems . 
It is encouraging that the Commission , of its own initiative , has realised we can not continue as we have in the past and that new structures and formats have to be found to close the gap between commitments and payments and that better use must be made of developing funds . 
Trade is the key . 
Decentralisation is a must to make better use of our delegation offices and cut red tape and wasted time . 
As the rapporteur for regional cooperation and integration last year , I am pleased to see progress being pursued in this direction with ECOWAS in West Africa leading the way . 
Only by strengthening internal regional trade will many nations be able to face globalisation and WTO rules . 
` Everything but Arms ' is a major step forward . 
But to make best use of development aid there must be closer cooperation between nation states , financial institutions and the Commission . 
The Commission should be acting as overall coordinator to cut out duplication and not be involved in the day-to-day development issues which should be contracted out to organisations that specialise in these matters . 
While budget support to national governments may spend more money quicker , it is much more difficult to police and monitoring will have to be of a high calibre . 
Small-scale help for entrepreneurs must not be abandoned . 
It is here that the members of the Committee on Development should be more active in keeping the Commission alert to its responsibilities . 
The Commission has laid down its six priority principles , all of which we can strongly support . 
The priority within the six is also important . 
We should never forget that without peace , stability , good governance and the rule of law none of the other five priorities can be acted upon . 
Fortunately , and I disagree with the last speaker , the Gemelli report strengthens the Commission proposals . 
Commissioner Nielson and his team have done a great job and Mr Gemelli ' s report - an excellent report - reinforces those new proposals . 
The acid test will be whether the next ten or twenty years of EU aid will reduce poverty substantially - I disagree with the last speaker , we will never eradicate poverty . 
The aim is to reduce substantially the poverty and misery experienced by so many . 
The Gemelli report attempts to take a fresh approach , a bold approach . 
Out with theory , the models which did not produce results . 
In with practical ideas to promote real development : development of human resources , so that indigenous people acquire technical skills ; development of vocational skills for rural production , so that people can grow , harvest , process , package and sell their goods for added value with which they can then buy their education , health and homes ; building capacity through transfer of technology to SMEs , promoting use of sustainable energy , application of information technology , enhancing awareness of social education , health and human rights . 
These are the ideas in the Gemelli report which support Commissioner Nielson ' s report and good work . 
Therefore , this important report should be fully approved by this House because it should improve the efficacy of EU aid . 
It will be a blueprint for other donors and I hope that all Members from all sides will support this report and the Commission as well . 
Mr President , on this , as indeed on the two subsequent reports we are going to vote , we should now vote in favour of the legislative resolution which rejects the Council 's proposal . 
But , as Mrs Banotti has indicated , the Convention is a holistic document and it would be wrong if some Member States had only part of it applied to them through the Community law method and did not ratify the other part . 
Now I know it is partly at the Commissioner 's responsibility , but will he , in pushing forward the ratification of the Community part of the 1996 Convention , also make it clear to Member States that it makes sense for them to ratify the rest of that Convention at the same time so that there is no disparity between the Convention and the way it is applied in different Member States within the Community . 
Mr President , I should like to begin by pointing out a technical correction . 
This is something that should have been picked up in committee but , unfortunately , it was not . 
It refers in Annex IV , 2.2 , to gauge pressure of 500 HPA , where in fact it should actually refer to 0.5 HPA . 
The very fact that I have stood up here and said that two further amendments have been submitted to me by the manufacturers highlights the dilemma Parliament faces with this type of directive . 
This is not a job for Parliament . 
We should be directing policy in the way it is going , but we should not be discussing technicalities which would have been better addressed elsewhere . 
I would like to suggest to the Commission that some of us get together at some point in the near future to stop this sort of report coming on to the agenda of Parliament . 
It is wasting the Commission 's time and it is wasting our time . 
It is high time that we started looking at ways of removing these technical reports - which are not political by any means - from the agenda . 
They should be discussed within the appropriate forum where engineers , technicians , scientists etc. , or whatever technical group , would look at these specifications rather than coming to me . 
I am not an engineer : I was a milkman in my first trade . 
Hopefully we can get a decent night 's sleep some time in the future . 
Madam President , I wish to inform the House that today is the UK 's No Smoking Day . 
As half a million EU citizens die needlessly each year from smoking yet 80 % of smokers want to give up , I hope that colleagues will see fit to sign the tabled written declaration calling for an EU no smoking day . 
Today alone 1500 EU citizens will die from smoking . 
Let us , the European Parliament , lead the way in preventing these deaths . 
Madam President , I simply wish to ask whether we could once again check that the no smoking rules in this House are being enforced . 
It has come to my attention that was not the case earlier this week . 
I would urge renewed vigour in the application of those rules in this House . 
Mr President , I shall speak with a voice that has not been much heard in this debate so far , despite the two words in Mr Barnier 's speech about regional parliaments . 
It must be remembered that Europe is not just a Europe of central institutions and Member States . 
Within the Member States there are self-governing countries - called , in the parlance of this House , `` regions '' . 
Many of their citizens regard themselves as citizens of ancient European nations deserving as much recognition in this Union as others . 
Mr Poettering rightly said that the Community method is a good one from the point of view of small states . 
Let it also be a good method for small countries that are not , or not yet , Member States of this Union in their own right . 
If , in the debate over the next three years , the voices of the democratically-elected parliaments of the countries and regions of Europe within the Member States are not heard properly and taken as fully into account as the voices of the Member States themselves , the `` national '' parliaments and - as Mrs Frassoni rightly said - the NGOs , then the debate will have been a failure . 
Subsidiarity is a two-ended concept . 
At one end it requires that decisions be taken as close to the people affected as is consistent with efficiency and equity . 
But that implies that many decisions can only be taken at the other end , at the higher level , when , for the sake of equity and efficiency , the whole of a great polity must be included . 
That great polity will not do well , however , unless it avoids taking power from the little people , the more local levels of government . 
The `` regions '' of Europe must be properly represented in this discussion and proper attention must be paid to subsidiarity . 
I voted for the Bösch report but I did so with some reluctance as I share along with many of my colleagues doubts about a European Public Prosecutor and its role . 
However , as this role has been confined to criminal offences committed against the financial interests of the European Communities by members and employees of EU institutions , then I felt this restricted role is worth supporting . 
The location of this office in Luxembourg is sensible due to the proximity of the European Court of Justice . 
The widening of the scope of the European Public Prosecutors office will have to be carefully monitored so as not to encroach into the Member States competence . 
Mr President , I hope the lack of attendance at this debate tonight is due to the late hour and not to the way in which I have chaired the two Assemblies we are talking about over the last year . 
I sincerely thank the rapporteur , not just for his report and the way he has presented it tonight , but for the very hard work he does both in the ACP and in the Development Committee . 
The past year has been a watershed for the ACP/EU partnership . 
There was a lot of resistance about going to Abuja , in Nigeria last year . 
But I felt that it was vitally important that we were seen to support this fledgling democracy . 
That turned out to be one of the best Assemblies we have ever had . 
As Mr Howitt has just said , it was very much a look back at the past and a debate about future partnership agreements . 
But the real benefit of visiting these developing countries is not just the Assembly , it is speaking to people involved in development work there and speaking to those who are helped because we in Europe give that development aid . 
At the Assembly in Brussels we took the first steps towards realigning the Assembly to fit the Cotonou Agreement . 
As co-president I am determined we will have a workshop and not a talking-shop from now on . 
We have built many of Mr Martínez Martínez 's ideas into the new rules . 
I want to see standing committees that do real work rather than the workshops that we have . 
I want to see a real North-South partnership leading to poverty eradication and I want to see the assembly take a leading role in conflict prevention and conflict resolution . 
Mr President , we live in exciting times . 
In our own lifetimes there have been massive and amazing advances in science and technology . 
New industries have appeared , become commonplace , and have provided a better quality of life , higher standards of living , new and better jobs and better working conditions . 
For Europe to keep its position in the economic forefront globally and to provide the standards we have come to expect , it has been essential for us to grasp these new technologies . 
Biotechnology is yet another of these industries . 
We ignore or side-step it at our peril . 
Like all new technologies , there are bound to be concerns : environmental , ethical and safety concerns . 
They must be fully and very openly discussed and studied with the public ; they must be monitored and safeguarded by effective regulation . 
Issues such as privacy and confidentiality in an era of genetic predictions require further study and perhaps specific legislation . 
We signal this need in the report and take no predetermined position . 
This is for later , after proper debate . 
I would suggest that Amendments Nos 9 and 27 are premature in that they seek to close off such consideration and decision . 
It is incumbent on us to encourage our scientists , entrepreneurs and business managers to take full advantage of the potential of biotechnology and bring this potential to the people of Europe and to the world , especially the less well-provided developing world . 
Biotechnology - the life and plant sciences which it encompasses - offers major advances in medicines and health care , to prevent and cure diseases and disabilities which for so long have blighted the lives of so many men , women and children in our constituencies and world-wide . 
Biotechnology offers major advances in the production of food in Europe to the advantage of farmers and consumers alike and benefits those parts of the world which struggle against drought and saline soils and fast-increasing populations . 
It offers crops that eliminate vitamin A deficiency and blindness for millions . 
It will use fewer pesticides and herbicides and therefore improve the environment and natural habitats . 
With valuable opinions from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural and Development and the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy , for which I sincerely thank their draftsmen , the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy has considered all the implications and decisively calls for us in Parliament , the Commission , the Council and the Member State governments to give this industry the support and commitment which it deserves and so badly needs . 
It is not only the USA : Brazil , Canada , China , India , Israel , Japan , Thailand , Singapore are all embracing biotechnology and actively promoting their indigenous industries . 
There is no time to lose if Europe is to take its proper place . 
We have the scientists , the research establishments and the scientific capability . 
We have the basis of a successful industry , with entrepreneurs , investors and business managers . 
But , for too long , these have been discouraged by negative and sceptical attitudes in government and political circles , public opinion and the media , by unsympathetic fiscal regimes , by a risk-averse culture and cumbersome legal structures . 
The Lisbon Council promised to make Europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world . 
Now we look to the Stockholm Council to fulfil that promise on biotechnology , which is precisely one of the most important means for reaching that much-quoted target . 
We look to the Commission to rouse itself , to shed its reticence and give a resolute lead with a bio-Europe action plan . 
We look to the Member States to get on with the job of implementing the outstanding directives and providing the positive environment for their biotech industries to develop and prosper . 
Our scientists and entrepreneurs are watching intently . 
What happens here today , in Stockholm this month , in Brussels and the Member States in the next few months , will decide whether they emigrate elsewhere or seek their futures here in Europe . 
I ask my colleagues in Parliament to give this report their full support . 
I ask the Commission to respond to it with vigour , determination and singleness of purpose . 
Mr President , combating AIDS is not just a matter of the price of the drugs . 
Of course price is important . 
Governments in these poor countries do not have the funds , even if it is only USD 10 for treating a patient . 
I hope , as rapporteur , to devise a package that is deliverable and will benefit the poorest who are suffering , without being emotive , without recommending a solution that requires billions in funds , which I know will not be forthcoming . 
Mr President , Mr Byrne has given us a very clear statement this afternoon in an area that was requiring more clarity . 
In Cumbria , where the outbreak was spreading out of control , we told the farmers that they would have to slaughter even healthy animals in a preventative cull . 
They reluctantly agreed to comply with that request and the slaughter of healthy animals has begun . 
Now we appear to be changing direction and saying at a time when we have not enough veterinary resources to deal with the backlog of animals requiring slaughter , with the huge backlog of animals requiring disposal burial , we are saying now that we wish to diversify and use these vets for a mass vaccination policy . 
This sort of dithering has been an element which has been obvious throughout this whole disease . 
To say that the UK government has been decisive is a nonsense : it dithered over whether to bring in the army . 
It dithered whether to use incineration instead of burial . 
Now it is dithering over vaccination . 
Let me say this afternoon that vaccination is not the right way forward . 
After what Mr Byrne has told us , if we use the vaccination policy we effectively bring down the curtain on our agricultural economy . 
We would close off the export trade for all these products from animals in the areas where vaccination had been used . 
Vaccination is not a sensible way forward just now during the epidemic . 
During that time they can spread the virus . 
Will similar restrictions be lifted in areas of the United Kingdom not affected by the disease ? 
Mr President , the Commissioner has told us that vaccination has not been asked for . 
It is being asked for today in this House . 
A decision on vaccination is not easy . 
I understand that many farmers are reluctant to go down the route of vaccination but the effect of this outbreak is being felt not only by the farming community , but by hauliers , hoteliers and a whole host of tourist businesses who are suffering without compensation . 
The Commissioner told us the disease has cost EUR 170 million in eradication measures . 
It is costing far more in lost business . 
If science allows us to distinguish between animals which have been vaccinated and those carrying the disease , then vaccination should be allowed whenever requested . 
The lessons from the UK are of inadequate contingency planning , an inadequate number of vets due to cuts in government services and inadequate supplies of labour and materials . 
I would ask the Commissioner three questions . 
Are you satisfied with the UK 's response to this disease ? 
Are you satisfied that other countries have adequate contingency plans ? 
Would you confirm that the first you heard of this disease in the UK was indeed on 20 February or were your services in fact tipped off about a possible outbreak some weeks earlier ? 
Is the Commissioner satisfied that KFOR is adequately controlling and successfully preventing movements of fighters and arms across the border between Kosovo and FYROM ? 
Mr President , this proposal for an action programme in public health is greatly welcomed by this Parliament . 
Health is an issue which opinion poll after opinion poll shows is the number one priority for our citizens across the European Union . 
This issue matters to ordinary people : people understand when you talk about health . 
As we discuss this report this evening we should never forget this . 
We often talk about getting closer to citizens and , with an appalling turnout across the Union at the last European elections , we should never forget what is important to our citizens . 
As we all know , Article 152 gives public health greater importance than ever before , so that health has to be taken into consideration in all European Union policy areas . 
With a rapid reaction unit to tackle communicable disease we can act much more effectively . 
Although I support much of what the rapporteur proposes , I still have concern over the issue of the centre . 
I fear that this issue could delay the whole programme because of the legal questions surrounding the proposal . 
In addition , I also fear that such a centre would take away much of the budget , leaving very little for the work which actually connects effectively with our citizens . 
In conclusion , health connects with the citizen . 
We must guarantee that this proposal , which will last for the next five years , is effective . 
We must deliver on health and well-being . 
After all , colleagues , the European elections are not far away . 
Mr President , as the UK Labour delegation spokesperson on health , I would like to give an explanation of vote on the Trakatellis report . 
Although there are many good features in this report which deserve support - and we support them - given the voting list method of voting en bloc we have followed the PSE position throughout . 
However , I would like to make it clear that the proposal for the centre mentioned in the Trakatellis report gives us great concern . 
We feel that this proposal is ill-thought through , the cost implications ill-considered and the legal implications could possibly delay all that is good in this report . 
I look forward to the second reading . 
Mr President , as the Member who has the honour of chairing the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs , I would like to thank Commissioner Vitorino and Ministers Bodström and Klingvall for the spirit of loyal cooperation in which they have approached the construction of the area of freedom , security and justice . 
Progress has been made in finding ways to work together in a policy field in which the Treaties are anything but satisfactory . 
But to say this throws some light on the difficulties we have encountered in the 18 months since the Tampere Summit : difficulties such as the need for separate legal arrangements in the first pillar and the third pillar ; the need to cater for Member States which are members of Schengen and those which are not ; the depressing predisposition of some Member States to pile headlong into individual initiatives before institutions have fully debated an overall approach . 
The house that we are building for our citizens should be able to withstand an earthquake . 
Let us lay the most solid foundations - those of the Community framework in which architects , builders and surveyors work together in concert . 
Parliament has called for an annual report on the implementation of the area of freedom , security and justice . 
In welcoming the report that I have just received from the presidency , I note that it is essentially a list of actions . 
What we will need is an assessment of the impact of measures taken . 
Minister Klingvall said it is hard to comment on the case of the `` East Sea '' because it is a matter for individual Member States . 
Arguably that may be true for 24 hours ; thereafter it is a matter for all of us . 
Surely , Minister , that is the whole point of the area of freedom , security and justice . 
Member States must understand that this is an area in which citizens want more Europe . 
We must rise to that challenge , not become bidders in a depressing downward auction of rights for our citizens or those arriving from elsewhere . 
The Charter of Fundamental Rights is arguably the most important development that we have seen . 
We must incorporate it into the law of the Union for there is no area of freedom , security and justice without rights and there are no rights without judges . 
Madam President , according to Rule 6 ( 6 ) of the Rules of the Procedure , committee reports concerning immunity of Members shall be placed at the head of the agenda . 
Recent events have reminded us that questions of immunity are not mere matters of form , but go to the substance of great issues of democracy in Europe and you have , indeed , alluded to that yourself . 
Are you certain that it satisfies Rule 6 ( 6 ) to take these issues of immunity after the Commission communication which appears to have been placed at the head of the agenda ahead of the issues of immunity ? 
Is that a correct interpretation of Rule 6 ? 
Madam President , it seems clear that we face in all these issues two critical imperatives : on the one side , it is vitally important that democratic deliberation in an assembly of this kind goes forward without unfair impediment or abuse of legal processes to deter Members from exercising their democratic mandate properly . 
On the other side , always when issues of immunity arise , the contemporary unpopularity of politicians becomes an issue and people say `` politicians hide behind membership of legislative houses in order to get away with things that ordinary people are punished for doing '' . 
It is equally important and vital to avoid giving that impression . 
That is why it is so important in these cases that the House becomes seized as quickly as possible of the question whether what is before us is an abuse of the legal process in terrorem democratiae or whether on the other hand this is a case where something is being done which ought to be tried in the ordinary courts in the case of any ordinary citizen , for we are all ordinary citizens as well as legislators . 
It is very regrettable that this issue has become a matter of long drawn-out deliberation in the executive branch of a Member State because that is exactly the wrong place for these vital issues to be debated . 
We should get them into Parliament as quickly as possible . 
Commissioner Nielson 's department have produced an excellent communication and programme for action for communicable infectious diseases , HIV Aids , TB and malaria . 
It is not possible for the EU to fund that programme alone and therefore I would like to ask , is he going to take the lead in initiating and establishing a global fund in cooperation with the UN and other agencies so that this can be done ? 
I am the rapporteur for that report and I hope this Parliament will put it on fast track so that it can be debated before the UN international conference on the subject in the third week of June . 
I saw a lot of time wasted this afternoon . 
This is an important subject and those responsible in this House should put that on the agenda for fast track debate , so Members of this House can debate it and the European Parliament 's view can go to that conference for consideration . 
I would like to thank the Commissioner for the statement he has just made . 
One thing is quite clear : unless we get better cooperation between the donors , we will never get rid of the duplication and voids we see in aid . 
Does he find already that we are getting better coordination with the United Nations because of what he is doing ? 
I noticed in the ninth EDF that 90 % of the funds will be going to the least developed countries . 
Do you think they have the capacity to deal with such a large amount of money ? 
And if not , are the United Nations organisations helping to build that capacity ? 
The EU policy is to move towards regional cooperation and integration . 
Is that also a policy that the United Nations organisations are following and will support ? 
Mr President , I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs , Mr Cashman and Mrs Maij-Weggen without whose drive , determination and doggedness , this would not have been possible . 
I would like too to thank the rapporteurs of other committees for their considerable contribution . 
If the House approves this tomorrow , credit will be due to all of those , including Mrs Hautala , who helped in the process . 
This proposed new regulation is an important milestone on the road to abolishing unnecessary secrecy in government . 
Other speakers have outlined its direct benefits to the citizen , but to me tomorrow 's vote must mark the beginning of a change in the culture of the European institutions from secrecy to openness . 
Many of us would have liked wider rights and fewer exceptions . 
Some argued that delay would give us a better deal , but the overwhelming majority on my committee decided not to make the best the enemy of the good , believing that this proposed regulation gives us a framework for progress . 
The European Parliament must now be vigilant in making sure the law is put into practice . 
I would like to thank the Presidency-in-Office , in particular , Ambassador Lund , for their willingness to grapple with this issue , to respect the deadline set by the treaties and to build a majority in Council . 
It is fitting that freedom of information legislation should be adopted under the presidency of a Member State which has long standing rights for citizens in this area , thanks to the farsightedness of an eminent former legislator , Mr Chydenius . 
Commissioner Barnier deserves the gratitude of the House for his work in the Commission . 
In conclusion , it is said that only three legislatures in the world make their decisions entirely behind closed doors : one is in Havana , one is in Pyongyang , and the third is the Council of Ministers in Brussels . 
We may not have broken down the doors , we may not have allowed in the TV cameras as the Swedish government once wanted , but we will shine the searchlight of public opinion into the darker corners of decision-making , in the Council , in the Commission and here in our own House . 
Mr President , as Mr Katiforis said introducing his admirable report , the facts before us reveal a state of affairs which nobody would have predicted a decade or so ago . 
It is a matter of great satisfaction to everybody in Europe and in this House that this should be the caseso , although I dare say it is wise to be , as both he and Mr von Wogau are , only cautiously optimistic . 
I agree very much with what Mr Katiforis said about the question of public investment . 
The United Kingdom seems to have adopted an attitude of quite excessive horror about public investment , and I noticed that in yesterday ' s Guardian newspaper Mr Bob Kiley , who ought to know , was predicting that the London Underground for which he is responsible , will , because of the Government ' s insistance on the ` public-private investment partnership ' whereby only private financiers are to come forward to invest , make the Tube worse and more expensive than it would have been under a programme of sensible public investment . 
I only wish that Mr Katiforis ' words would be attended to in my own country . 
As has been said in the course of the debate , there is a matter of serious concern about the future pension liabilities of all the Member States . 
I speak with a certain interest since my own next birthday will be my sixtieth and I would be very glad , therefore , if we were to carry Amendment No 4 recommending the creation of special funds to deal with the future overhang of pension liabilities as that is one of the troubles that may beset us . 
But I welcome the report on behalf of my group and give Mr Katiforis our thanks and support . 
The admirable report by Malcolm Harbour invites us to look at our research initiative and we particularly welcome and support that aspect . 
We will need to make sure that we have the regulatory mechanisms right and deal properly with the risks and threats as well as getting the technological fixes done correctly . 
Can I also underline a point arising out of Clause 9 which Mr Hyland made : I am just back from a visit to the Outer Hebrides during the constituency week . 
We can , with these technologies , cancel the disadvantages of the periphery and we can therefore turn round the age-old tendency of depopulation of our remote areas provided that we make available , for example , abundant low-cost expanded high band-breadth infrastructures with access on equitable terms . 
We must ensure that the outlying places are brought into this . 
My colleague , Michael Cashman , has done a first-class job in preparing his report on public access to documents held by the EU institutions . 
He makes it clear that in principle all documents held by Council , Commission and Parliament must be accessible to EU citizens . 
I believe he is also right to say that the institutions need ` space to think ' and therefore some informal documents should be excluded from his proposal in order to allow the free exchange of ideas . 
Mr President , it has taken nearly a year and a half to conclude this tobacco directive , and I wish to thank the rapporteur for all his hard work . 
The directive will reduce the most addictive and dangerous substances in cigarettes ; it will ban the use of misleading descriptors such as ` ultras ' , ` lights ' and ` milds ' and it will introduce giant health warnings . 
Through the work of MEPs we have also been given a guarantee that the Commission will draw up new rules on the use of picture health warnings on cigarette packs by December 2002 . 
After decades of deception and misinformation from the tobacco industry , the message about the true cost of smoking will finally start to hit home . 
As we all know , smoking is the biggest cause of preventable illness and disease across the European Union . 
Over half a million people in the EU die needlessly each year from smoking . 
In fact , someone diagnosed with lung cancer has an average of between three to ten months of life left . 
At the end of this month there is the World No Tobacco Day . 
There is no better way of celebrating this than by the coming into force of this new directive next year . 
At this point I should like to encourage colleagues to sign the written declaration for an EU No Tobacco Day . 
However the battle against big tobacco continues . 
I look forward to the new proposals for a tobacco ad ban which the Commission will be introducing shortly . 
One life lost due to tobacco is one life too many . 
It is not my intention in any way to delay the votes or to re-open the debate we had this morning , but I think it appropriate to place on record my thanks to the ushers for their very efficient and prompt handling of the situation . 
I think their professionalism in the situation deserves much credit . 
The European Parliamentary Labour Party supports the proposal to lay down clear and transparent guidelines for the operation of European political parties and to regulate their finances . 
The new rules would make the system more visible , more open , more transparent and above that fairer . 
Democracy requires parties to provide choice to the electorate and to articulate the views of voters . 
At European level , they remind us that , on most policy issues our differences of view are not between Member States but between different philosophies and political viewpoints that exist within all Member States . 
Madam President , It was a deplorable feature of the document to which Mrs Gebhardt 's report responded that , as I said in the explanatory statement , Parliament commented in detail on the protection of individual rights , which did not feature at all in the Council text . 
It seems to me that every step that we take and justifiably take in this direction must be , at the same time , one which recognises in the highest degree protection of the rights of the defence and of the rights of persons accused of crime in all parts of the Union . 
May I remark that the provision on national representatives allows for substitutes ? 
I hope that the United Kingdom in appointing persons will take note of the fact there are two distinct systems of criminal justice in the UK . 
Throughout the text , the word ` execution ' is used , meaning , of course , execution simply in the sense of carrying out a penalty . 
Can I make a suggestion for the future . 
Mr President , Madam President-in-Office , Commissioner , it is a great pleasure at this time - when in the United Kingdom I fear a rather negative tone has been taken about Europe - to be able to say how much one welcomes this development of a constitutionalisation of Europe in circumstances of enlarged and expanding democracy bringing the countries of Central and Eastern Europe in . 
As the President-in-Office has said , it is an odd view that the European Union does not already have a constitution . 
That does not necessarily imply a full-scale federation along the lines of Mr Schroeder . 
Those of us who believe in a confederal Europe believe just as much that it must be marked by respect for human rights , by clarity of democratic principle and by interaction of pluralistic constitutions , rather than a strictly hierarchical model . 
Too often in this House we hear the term `` nation '' used as though it were purely co-extensive with the term `` Member State '' . 
It is a well-known fact , to those who reflect upon it , that there are more nations in Europe than there are states . 
One of the interesting features of our time has been , partly under the guidance of the growth of democracy in Europe , the re-emergence of internal democracies in small ancient nations of Europe like Catalonia , the Basque country , Scotland , Galicia and Flanders . 
We in the European Free Alliance hope that the process which we start today will be marked by a respect for subsidiarity in a generous and extensive sense : Amendments No 5 and 18 from the Liberals and Amendment 28 from my own group are for us keystones of this process . 
Surely indeed , this Union must recognise subsidiarity in a generous and broad sense , it must acknowledge the political and national diversity of the European Union and the debate on the future must take full account of the powers of the internal political units of the Member States , not only of the Member States themselves . 
In this election in Scotland , there is a debate going about whether there should be full fiscal autonomy for the Scottish parliament : autonomy is growing in all these small countries and it is vital that it be recognised . 
The idea that the Treaty of Nice makes the European Union a centralised superstate is nonsense and was rightly dismissed as ridiculous in the debate yesterday . 
This resolution acknowledges that the last remaining institutional obstacles to enlargement have been removed and we welcome that . 
It also looks at the need for further reform , to which Labour is committed in order to make the European Union more effective , more transparent and more accountable . 
Nonetheless , the resolution contains some criticisms of the Treaty of Nice which are unfounded and also contains some proposals for the future which pre-empt the debate on the future of Europe due to take place over the coming years . 
Some of these proposals are premature and some are unlikely ever to be desirable ; for this reason , the Labour Members decided to abstain on this text . 
Mr President , following up on Mr Helmer 's point on the Irish Referendum , you may recall another event last week , in the UK . 
Mr Helmer 's party campaigned on the principle of keeping the pound against the euro . 
Now we all know that the British people soundly rejected his party on that policy . 
Will he now join me in voting to go with the euro ? 
Mr President , on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries I welcome the proposal wholeheartedly . 
Moreover , adequate consideration must be given to the special needs of the peripheral communities , such as those in Scotland and other fishing nations which fisheries support . 
That is why the Committee on Fisheries supported my amendment introducing a new recital on traceability . 
The very nature of fisheries has implications for traceability . 
There are numerous potential difficulties which the Commission must ensure are catered for , taking into account different methods of catch , where fish are caught , where they are landed and also problems associated with black fish . 
In addition , I felt it was essential that the composition of the management board ensures a balanced representation of expertise covering all relevant sectors involved in food production , distribution and animal feed and including , in particular , fisheries . 
It is regrettable that neither of these priorities were taken on board by the committee responsible . 
I would urge the Commissioner to take them into account . 
Please note that I am not suggesting increasing the size or changing the method of appointing the board , merely that the relevant expertise should be included . 
I welcome , however , amendments which follow the gist of my opinion , redefining the definitions of food unfit for human consumption and contaminated food in Amendments Nos 43 and 44 , as they are more in line with the policy the Commission has pursued in the wake of the outbreak of infectious salmon anaemia . 
Finally , the Committee on Fisheries endorsed Amendments Nos 35 and 51 , which take into account the distinct needs of the aquaculture sectors and , in particular , the amendments that address concerns which have been voiced about the development of genetically modified fish , to prevent them from entering the food chain through the back door via third-country imports . 
I would therefore urge the House to support these amendments . 
Mr President-in-Office , most of us can admire the tactics and future tasks to be conducted by Europol as an organisation . 
We all know that it is a very necessary organisation . 
You identified a new structure for Europol in the future . 
Are there any plans to bring Europol under democratic control ? 
Mr President , over seven years ago a woman walked into my office in Glasgow . 
She had been turned away by a wide variety of authorities - elected members and health authorities . 
I sat down with her and over a period of about three-and-half hours she convinced me that there was a problem with the whole question of silicone and silicone implants . 
The result of that conversation , over seven years ago , is that I am standing here tonight talking about it - not on behalf of Mr Miller , but on behalf of that woman and the hundreds of thousands of other women who have since joined together in a vast network , not just in Europe but throughout the world , to petition against the use of unsafe silicone implants . 
I congratulate Parliament and the Petitions Committee . 
As I said , this was not only down to Mr Miller , though I have pursued it through Parliament . 
Regarding a couple of points in the report , I am glad to see the call for a ban on implants anyone under the age of 18 for cosmetic purposes . 
When we talk about the quality of the implants we also have to talk about the safety of the implants . 
I can not stress that too strongly . 
We talk about the information to prospective clients undergoing this operation . 
We also talk about registration . 
This is a tribute to Parliament , but moreover , this is a tribute to the thousands of women who have been fighting for years . 
It has finally been recognised that there is a problem . 
Madam President , I wish to express thanks to you , the rapporteur and my Scottish colleague , Bill Miller , for bringing matter before the Petitions Committee . 
The issue of silicone gel breast implants is a sensitive one and this debate , as many have said this evening , is long overdue . 
That is why we in the Environment Committee wanted to see access for all patients to free comprehensive information drawn up by independent experts , clear , bold health warnings in advertising , and an end to the before-and-after-pictures frequently used in women 's magazines . 
We in the Environment Committee believe that all breast implant operations should be recorded in the EU and that , as a result , manufacturers should supply only to surgeons who use such a register . 
The cost of breast implants should include precare , independent advice , alternatives , a cooling-off period and post-care . 
Finally , there should be comprehensive national lists of registered private clinics and trained plastic surgeons . 
I am glad to see that he rapporteur has taken on much of the Environment Committee 's opinion and I thank her for that . 
Mr President , the aims of this report on improving road safety and guaranteeing minimum standards of health and safety for all road transport drivers are obviously worthwhile , but these goals need to be related to reality , for example their impact in peripheral and remote areas such as the Highlands and Islands of Scotland . 
I have received many letters expressing a degree of alarm about the possible consequences of this proposal . 
For example , a haulage company in Arran , not the most remote of Scotland 's islands , pointed out that many hours are spent on ferries to and from the mainland . 
This is an issue which may adversely affect tourist travel to , as well as from , areas like Scotland . 
A coach operator in Glasgow is of the view that if the Hughes proposals are fully implemented , mainland European coach operators may regard Scotland as a destination too far . 
In the case of Scotland 's Western and Northern Isles , two or three ferry crossings may be required before reaching Scotland 's mainland , often landing in areas very remote from the ultimate destination . 
The report 's conclusion also refers to achieving a level playing field with other transport sectors already covered . 
The reality , though , in much of rural and island Scotland is that no alternative to road transport exists . 
Indeed , a former Shetland Islands MEP was fond of pointing out that the nearest mainline railway station to Shetland is in fact Bergen . 
Scotland 's road transport sector is already being penalised financially by the UK government through punitive taxation on fuel . 
Some aspects of this working time proposal potentially threaten the already fragile viability of road transport . 
Therefore I can not fully support the more restrictive proposals in this report . 
Mr President , first I would like to thank the Commissioner for his answers today . 
No one who has listened to the Commissioner over the last few years in this House could doubt his commitment to removing poverty and disease from the world as efficiently and effectively as possible using EU-resources . 
I wanted to ask him a question about the third disease mentioned in this report , and suggest to him that perhaps we should concentrate on this least glamorous of the three , because tuberculosis could be eradicated . 
Unfortunately HIV , as you say , is likely to be with us for a long time and at the moment we are largely into palliative care as regards HIV/AIDS . 
A concerted world programme over a relatively short period of time could eliminate tuberculosis from the world . 
I have a particular interest in this , because the cure was actually pioneered in my home city of Edinburgh 70 years ago . 
We thought we had eradicated it in western Europe , but it is re-emerging now . 
If we can remove it from the developing nations , we can also remove it from the world permanently . 
That is the prize - the permanent removal , which is unfortunately not yet available to us as regards the two other diseases . 
Even if there is a delay in getting the World Fund going on the other diseases , perhaps we could suggest to Kofi Annan and the UN that we have a pilot project concentrating specifically on tuberculosis , which might inspire nations to contribute to the other areas once we see success in this area . 
We all appreciate , Mr President , how difficult it is to exercise your discretion on these occasions . 
But I have to say , on a day when we have had only one hour for questions , it was a bit hard that you allowed all the supplementaries to over-run . 
It becomes a farce if our efforts to hold the Commission to account result in a shortened Question Time and only five questions being asked and answered . 
I hope , understanding as I do your answer , Mr President , that I have the good fortune to appear higher on the list the next time you are in the Chair for Question Time . 
Mr President , perhaps I could waste a little time because earlier on we were informed that the Linkohr report would be taken at 10 p.m. 
Obviously you have been speeding through things at an extraordinary rate and Mr Linkohr must have been under the misapprehension that he was not required until 10 p.m. 
I have only just got here myself as a shadow rapporteur . 
Could we perhaps waste a little time ? 
Mr President , Mr Linkohr 's report is much to be welcomed . 
It is a balanced report with workable suggestions on how to improve the intermittently precarious oil supply situation . 
It is intermittent because these crises endure for relatively short periods as market forces come to bear and rectify the situation . 
Indeed the volatility of oil prices , ranging in the last 18 months from USD 10 to 34 per barrel , is as much a problem for the suppliers as it is for the consumers . 
This gives us an opportunity , because stable prices are of interest both to us in Europe and to the oil supplier countries . 
We should make a much more consistent effort to develop a dialogue with the oil supplier countries , with the Middle East , with Russia , with the Caspian and Caucasus countries and with West Africa . 
As a practical example , Europe should encourage and facilitate the construction of oil and gas pipelines from these places to the heartland of Europe . 
Nor should we overlook the potential of our indigenous oilfields , notably those in my Scottish constituency . 
Research and investment and improved recovery techniques have already extended the life and productivity of the North Sea and continental shelf oilfields . 
But more can still be done . 
We must also pursue opportunities for saving energy , above all in the transport sector . 
Yes , we must do what we can to promote renewable and alternative energies . 
But we can not share Mr Linkohr 's enthusiasm for harmonising tax rates and using harmonised tax , applied at European level , and the manipulation of strategic oil reserves to regulate oil prices . 
Tax rates are for the Member States to set and clearly they are quite unwilling to sign up to the long-delayed directive on taxation of energy products . 
Taxes on energy should be set in the context of an open competitive European market which , in itself , will ensure that fuel costs are not too far out of line from one country to the next . 
We can not afford to hobble our economies , our industries and those who live and work in our rural and remoter regions . 
Yes , oil supply is a matter which has to concern us . 
The Commission 's communication and Mr Linkohr 's report are valuable contributions to understanding the problem and defining possible solutions . 
If we can succeed in amending the few unacceptable aspects that I have detailed , this group will be pleased to support Mr Linkohr 's report . 
Mr President , I would like to return to a matter which I am recorded as having raised in yesterday 's minutes . 
Question Time to the Commission yesterday was truncated to a single hour , during which only five questions were answered . 
It will be disastrous for the Union if we carry on this practice of truncating Question Time and having very few questions dealt with properly . 
One possibility suggested to me is that we might at least contemplate having a weekly Question Time in Brussels , as well as in Strasbourg , so as to provide for thorough questioning of the Commission on points which our constituents wish us to raise with them . 
I am glad to see Mr Provan here today , because this kind of question falls within his remit as a Member of Parliament 's Bureau . 
It is really for them to look after Members ' interests . 
As far as Mr MacCormick is concerned , I am glad to see Mr Corbett sitting here because it is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that is now looking at this matter , after the Bureau decided to refer it to them . 
I think he has the matter well in hand . 
We can not continue to allow Commissioners to be treated this way . 
Mr President , in the debate yesterday a number of speakers from remote parts of the Union drew attention to the potentially severe effects that this new law would have on outlying places . 
Mr Hudghton , for example , drew attention to the problems of drivers coming from the Hebrides onto the mainland of Scotland and then onwards . 
Ms Kauppi made similar points as I recall about Finland , and other colleagues made points about Portugal . 
We were told that during the debate that the intention is to provoke a conciliation and obtain a compromise position between the Commission and Parliament at conciliation . 
I voted as I did in the hope and expectation that the Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee will take proper and full account of the very severe problems of remote parts of the Union in relation to this law . 
It was initiated by the Bonino radicals and was based on erroneous and tendentious accusations against the Egyptian justice system . 
In the process of discussions between the groups we elicited the facts , which even they had to agree . 
The result is that the proposed compromise resolution says virtually nothing more than could be required of any of our own Member States , that is , that freedom and human rights are fundamental to democracy . 
Despite this , the authors of this motion have been peddling shameful and unfounded accusations in their speeches . 
However , Commissioner , there is one question I wish to ask you and I would like an unequivocal response , if that is possible . 
Paragraph 4 of this resolution expresses our support for the Khaldun Centre for Democracy and requires the Commission to continue its financial support for this organisation and its activities . 
My question is this : is the Commission wholly satisfied that the Khaldun Centre for Democracy has properly managed and accounted for its funds and , more particularly , the European Union funds it receives ? 
That is one of the this case . 
If ` yes ' , I shall be pleased to support Paragraph 4 . 
If ` no ' or ` perhaps no ' , I believe we should vote against Paragraph 4 until we are satisfied , and also vote against the resolution as a whole if it still contains Paragraph 4 . 
An answer please , Commissioner . 
Mr President , this is a comprehensive report and I congratulate Mrs Redondo for the great deal of work that she has put into it . 
The House might be interested to know that Mrs Redondo very kindly accepted my invitation to come to London during the formulation of this report to take evidence from representatives of the UK pig industry and senior officials from the National Farmers Union and the Ministry of Agriculture . 
We happened to be in one of those meetings on Tuesday 20 February this year , the very day the first outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in the UK was reported . 
As you can well imagine , this brought our meeting to an abrupt halt . 
Indeed , it is partly because of foot-and-mouth disease that I wish to direct my remarks to the question of feeding catering waste or pigswill to pigs . 
I know that my colleagues from Germany and Austria have serious reservations about the proposal to ban such material from being fed to pigs throughout the EU . 
As Mrs Redondo has just said , Amendment No 33 seeks to permit controlled swill feeding , subject to stringent exceptional arrangements , if it can be guaranteed that the pathogens which cause epizootic diseases have been destroyed by treatment . 
Amendment No 37 seeks to achieve a similar objective . 
I would ask the House to reject both these amendments this evening . 
In the UK we had stringent controls of swill feeding in place . 
We ensured that pig farmers only used the most appropriate and up-to-date equipment for boiling catering waste to the correct temperature to destroy all pathogens and we ensured that regular inspections of the farms using such equipment were carried out . 
Of course you can not legislate for human behaviour , however . 
It now seems almost certain that infected catering waste was delivered to a farm in the north-east of England , which for whatever reason , was not properly treated , or perhaps was not treated at all . 
This simple error , whether deliberate or just a mistake , has led to the destruction of over six million animals in the United Kingdom and tens of thousands of animals in Ireland , the Netherlands and France . 
We have now banned swill in the UK entirely . 
I urge the House to do the same across the whole of the EU . 
Mr President , it is a privilege to have the opportunity of taking part in this debate . 
As one of the majority at the conciliation group in Luxembourg on 5 June , my primary motive in voting was to ensure that Parliament would have the chance to vote on this third reading . 
It would have been a scandal if , at 1 a.m. in Luxembourg on 5 June , 15 of us had voted it down and prevented Parliament having this debate . 
We can assure all those visiting this House today that there will not be a more important decision affecting the well-being of industry in Europe than this one . 
My group will have a free vote on it and I believe others will as well . 
We will , as individual Members of Parliament , stand by our consciences on this issue at tomorrow 's vital vote . 
Sometimes I feel I am living in a looking glass land when I hear that all sorts of disastrous takeovers will occur if the directive is carried . 
Will we have a single basic law for takeovers or will we let the chaos continue ? 
Mr Lehne makes a powerful point about the damage that can be done by golden shares , about the unfairness of the absence of a level playing field . 
It will probably take four years , if we carry this tomorrow , before it comes into effect . 
Trade unionists and employees of companies throughout Europe will still have to wait four years to get what Mr Medina Ortega already regards as not enough . 
It will have to declare its intentions in regard to jobs and the location of work . 
The trade unions or other employees ' representatives will have the right to comment on that before the offeree company comes to a decision . 
The shareholders of the offeree company will need to know what the view of the employees is . 
None of this is law at the moment . 
We are about to deprive people of something of vital importance , unless we carry this ! 
Mr President , Mr Maaten 's report makes constructive suggestions for the imminent introduction of euro coins and notes in the 12-member euro zone and refers also to the low level of public and small business awareness of certain aspects of the changeover . 
In particular in the report I support the comments on the need for frontloading the general public with notes and coins . 
I also welcome its emphasis on the role of local and regional public administrations in the changeover . 
It is essential that every effort is made to ensure that this so-called flagship event is managed effectively and that the changeover is smooth . 
Most of my comments , however , are based on a view from the outside , from Scotland , for the time being part of the UK . 
There may be some problems with public awareness within the euro zone , but we have a much bigger problem within Scotland and the rest of the UK . 
The level of awareness in Scotland may be lamentable but it is not surprising given the attitudes of the political leaders in the Scots and UK governments in recent years . 
The new Labour London government has been afraid to show support for UK entry , or even to provide factual information , while the Conservatives have simply shown an almost deranged hostility to the euro and have attempted to mislead the public on the implications of joining . 
In the short term , though outwith the euro zone , there is also a substantial need for factual information campaigning on the implications after 2002 in our relationship with the euro zone , whether we ever decide to join or not . 
I call on the UK and the Scots governments to encourage the process of public information and to seek the support of the European Central Bank and the European Commission in encouraging Scots businesses to gear up for the acceptance of the new coins and notes . 
Will the Commissioner advise me whether these policemen will be , or can be , armed and what their terms of engagement might be ? 
I take it from you that it is very unlikely that any agreement could be reached . 
Just a month or two ago the American Ambassador to the EU stated that the cosmetics area could be the basis of one of the biggest trade disputes , putting bananas and all the others far into the shade , if it was not resolved . 
So I take it that you are telling us we are going down a path that could lead to near disaster . 
Have you tried to quantify the potential for retaliation against European industry of other injured parties , and what that could mean in terms of lost jobs in Europe ? 
Mr Commissioner , you have primarily concentrated on the logistical and technical aspects , and you have only just begun to touch on the monetary risks that could ensue from what you call the gigantic holdings by foreigners of German marks but also presumably of other euro zone currencies . 
If these holders begin to get concerned about how they are going to exchange these holdings , or about what the euro is going to be , is there a risk of them moving into the dollar or other currencies and thereby destabilising the euro even more than it has been ? 
Mr President , my point of order is exactly the same as Mr Provan ' s. 
I , like many Members in this Chamber , have looked at the official record at lunchtime today and it does say 273 for , and 272 against . 
If that is the official record - and that is the record that is published - then I would suggest that the result given by the President this morning is incorrect . 
Mr Wuori said , in introducing the debate , that this is about the fundamental principle of respect for human personality in all its manifestations . 
Charters and conventions and rights seek to quantify and give exact terms to the impermissible forms of disrespect and then discountenance them everywhere . 
The moving section on enlargement in Mr Wuori ' s paper reminds us that both a condition and a consequence of enlargement of the Union will be to expand the recognition , enforcement and upholding of human rights throughout this continent . 
What could be a more welcome outcome ? 
Mr Cornillet suggested that we should not take the two papers together . 
I think we have to . 
We must always remind ourselves , as we call upon others outside the Union to rise to the standards of respect for persons which seem to us fundamental , that we are continually at risk ourselves of falling below the standards . 
Last night as the Echelon Committee adopted its report , it made it clear that running systems of random interception of messages breaches the fundamental right to privacy in one ' s personal life and communications . 
Those who are doing it in the United Kingdom and elsewhere must be urged to put a stop to it . 
There are other areas , such as the right to a speedy trial , where other states are not up to the mark . 
We must press for rights to be recognised at home as well as abroad . 
Mr President , does a peasant suffering from AIDS have the right to access medicine and treatment that he can not afford ? 
Does a child born in poverty have the human right to receive basic education and appropriate vaccines to protect him from killer diseases ? 
Does a peasant farmer devastated by natural disasters such as drought , pests and soil erosion have the right to our assistance ? 
Do millions of people living in misery for political reasons in isolated countries like Palestine and Iraq have any rights ? 
What do we mean when we talk about human rights ? 
I urge every colleague concerned with human rights to visit , unannounced and informally , any peasant in any poor country and ask him about our views on human rights , political freedom , economic freedom , religious freedom , free access to education and health services . 
That peasant will look at you in bewilderment and plead : `` All I need is a supply of fresh water to my house . 
All I need is a source of energy so that I can light my house and cook the next meal '' . 
They need to own their own land , their home and their farm . 
And secondly , to acquire the technology to break the cycle of dependency on us and seize the opportunity to be self-sufficient , self-reliant through their own local enterprise . 
When the poor have an economic stake , then civil society and democracy will take root . 
These people will see the need for law and order and political representation . 
Then you will see the courts replacing the bullet - and that is when we will see human rights . 
I heard your ruling , but Annex II to the Rules of Procedure says that each Member may put a supplementary to any question . 
We have been economical . 
We get one answer , but we should each get a supplementary . 
The President-in-Office of the Council is very receptive to the points we are making but her colleagues in the Council , generally , have very little to say about subsidiarity in a way that pleases us . 
This is the kind of thing that makes an increasing part of the population of Scotland recognise that being a Member State is a much better idea than being a constitutional region . 
Even Luxembourg has more ! 
I do not know the difference between the regions of Luxembourg intimately , but I dare say they are less than the difference between the regions of Scotland . 
Annex IV of the Nice Treaty contains a declaration calling for a deeper and wider debate about the future development of the EU . 
The issue of integrated coastal zone management is of crucial importance to my constituents in Scotland . 
As the Commission highlights in its proposal , this is not just a local problem , but is of critical importance for all Europeans . 
As Mrs Langenhagen said , one third of EU citizens live close to , if not on , these areas . 
Research has revealed a worrying deterioration in the environmental , socio-economic and cultural resources of our coastal zones . 
We see aggressive competition between users of these resources . 
The environmental problems include habitat destruction , water contamination , coastal erosion and resource depletion and these are all very serious . 
These environmental problems have a knock-on effect beyond coastal regions to inland regions . 
The roots of the problem include a lack of knowledge , a failure to involve stake-holders and , therefore , a lack of cooperation between the relevant administrative bodies . 
At a recent videoconference in Scotland House , that is the home of the Scottish Executive in Brussels , it was interesting to see how the different local authorities in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland were already working within local partnerships with stake-holders to protect the coastal zone . 
It gave me great encouragement that action was being taken and that the coastal zone was being given the importance it rightly deserved . 
It is , after all , at local level that a real difference will be made . 
In conclusion , we need to encourage strong action at a local level which we are seeing already in Scotland , and we need to exchange best practice across the EU in order that our coastal zones can be enjoyed as much by this generation as by the next . 
Mr President , I have great pleasure in commending the whole of this resolution to the House . 
I do not want to talk about the whole motion for a resolution today , however . 
I want to talk about one particular problem which is dealt with in the amendment by my group . 
Like many people I can just imagine what it would be like to have a child ripped from your hands at the age of 20 days and never to see them again , be yourself in prison for five years under torture and cruel treatment , and then spend the rest of your life at liberty trying to find your lost child . 
Sara Méndez from Uruguay was in this Parliament yesterday to press forward the case for recovering her child , or getting information about her son Símon , who was ripped from her arms aged 20 days after her illegal capture in Buenos Aires in 1976 . 
That is a dreadful thing to happen and we should add to this admirable motion for a resolution a clause calling upon those who are in authority in Uruguay to recognise the evil of disappearances , to recognise their bounden duty to bring children back to their parents and to end this scandal and disgrace . 
I hope we will carry the motion for a resolution and make that point . 
Mr President , Hutus of Bantu origin form the majority tribe in Burundi with a population of 6 million . 
The Tutsis of Nilotic origin are the minority tribe , but they dominate the government and the army . 
Such tribal polarisation as we often see in Africa has been a major factor in the internal conflict , not only in Burundi but in neighbouring states . 
In 1993 Burundi 's Hutu President was assassinated and within a month over 100,000 civilians were killed . 
The Democratic Republic of Congo has experienced similar conflict and almost 2 million civilians have been killed there or are missing over the last two to three years . 
In the Horn , East and Central Africa covering 12 countries , there are 20 million displaced persons , displaced from their homes and their villages . 
They have no education , no access to health care , no employment and no shelter . 
They depend totally on the World Food Programme for their food and they fear those who run the refugee camps where they live . 
It is not surprising , therefore , that these refugee camps are breeding grounds for disease , discontent and disorder . 
Young men and women are lured by the warlords to join their unruly gangs . 
These innocent and desperate people , who were ordinary civilians before , probably farmers , are easily persuaded to train and be armed to support the greed and power struggle of the warlords . 
The Lusaka and Arusha peace accords have failed to end the violence and internal conflict . 
Repatriation of refugees is not satisfactory as the people are simply afraid to return to villages devastated , overrun and terrorised by the terrorists or the warlords . 
How can we allow these displaced millions , these desperate refugees , to live in their camps as beggars for life . 
How can we extinguish the fires of conflict and civil war in these developing countries ? 
Containers full of medicines , tents , food , blankets and other such things bring temporary relief , but this is not enough . 
We must be more active and rethink our strategy . 
We must first of all give the poor a stake in their rural economies so that they may own their own land and have an opportunity to build their lives . 
Secondly , we must give them the appropriate technology - third world technology - which they can then use to start local enterprises to break this cycle of dependency on us . 
We must rethink our strategy and reassess the quality of people that we have in place as our ambassadors and representatives , their experience , and see how we can perhaps use local experts with international reputation and competence to advise us , to act on our behalf , to use the limited resources that we have to its best effectiveness . 
We must embark on this with great urgency . 
Mr President , it is essential that fishing effort - and I mean effort as opposed to capacity - is matched to fishery resources . 
Member States must also be obliged to fulfil their fleet reduction targets so I welcome the general thrust of Mr Busk 's report . 
Unfortunately , an amendment in committee added a reference to the Cunha report and brought with it the concept of quota penalties , a proposal which is against the acquis communautaire . 
As the Commission itself stated in this House on a previous occasion , and I quote : `` The automatic reduction in quotas for non-complying countries seriously undermines the basic principle of the common fisheries policy which is that of relative stability '' . 
Quota penalties are impractical as well as unjust , punishing fishermen for their Member State 's wrongdoing . 
Quotas should be based on science and conservation objectives , not misused as automatic penalties . 
I ask therefore for a separate and split vote on paragraph 4 of this text and I urge Members to reject the references to the Cunha report and make sure that effective sanctions are targeted against those who are obliged to fulfil MAGP targets , that is , Member State governments , and not fishermen . 
Can I first of all congratulate my friend and colleague , Jim Nicholson , on his report . 
Technical measures to aid the recovery of cod stocks in the Irish Sea are of very great importance and they are of considerable consequence to fishermen in Scotland who are now desperately searching for ways to rejuvenate cod stocks in the North Sea . 
We are therefore studying the success of the measures taken in the Irish Sea with huge interest . 
Fish stocks , as you know , have collapsed in the North Sea , recently forcing the Commission to introduce emergency measures for the first time , when they closed 40 000 sq miles to cod fishing for 12 weeks , and to introduce emergency measures to protect northern hake stocks . 
Our once proud Scottish fleet , which landed 400 000 tonnes of cod per year in Scottish ports in 1970 , is now limited by strict TACs and quotas to a mere 20 000 tonnes per year . 
The situation is no longer sustainable . 
The Commission Green Paper on reform of the CFP contains proposals , which have received widespread support from the industry , for maintaining the 6 - and 12-mile limits to protect in-shore fisheries , preserving the successful conservation zones such as the Shetland Box and maintaining the concept of relative stability to limit access to the North Sea . 
The Commission has also recommended devolving some aspects of fisheries management to zonal committees , involving key stakeholders such as fishermen and scientists in an advisory role . 
All of this is highly commendable and will assist in the process of stock recovery and juvenile recruitment . 
It is also necessary , however , as the rapporteur has pointed out , to introduce a wide range of technical measures such as mesh sizes . 
For this reason alone , I am alarmed that we continue to allow industrial fishing for sand eels and Norway pout in the North Sea . 
Industrial fishing is completely incompatible with the development of a sustainable fishery . 
How can we force our fishermen to utilise 110 mm mesh sizes in the EU sector from 1 January 2002 for cod , haddock and whiting when we continue to allow these Klondykers to scoop up everything in their path using small-mesh nets . 
This destructive practice has got to stop , and I hope that the Commission will take the necessary steps to control industrial fishing as part of the overall CFP reform . 
Mr President , this is a very necessary technical proposal and I fully endorse Mr Nicholson 's report and the proposal to which it refers . 
But speaking of recovery plans in general , of course it is not only the Irish Sea that has seen catastrophic declines . 
The North Sea too has been confronted with drastic depletion of stock leading to partial sea closures and another cod recovery plan and the hake recovery plan . 
There is a manifest need in fisheries management to take account of the local eco-system and the regional differentials which exist . 
The broad brush approach , I would contend , has not worked with stocks on the decline and recovery very slow , if evident at all . 
That is why regional management is the way forward . 
In addition to the short-term technical proposals referred in this type of report , the approach of the Commission 's Green Paper , which is both more regional and conservation-orientated , must be embraced . 
In this regard , I also welcome proposals to make additional funds available for tie-up schemes as a necessary part of the management tool box for conservation purposes , going in tandem with the recovery plans . 
Compensated tie-up schemes are also essential for the preservation of the CFPs social role . 
In Scotland , the need for recovery is acknowledged by all the stake-holders , but fishermen also must have the financial and the social protection that they need to encourage them while taking responsible actions . 
Therefore , I ask the Commission to ensure that a system is set in place which allows for compensated tie-ups , but without being subject to the whims of Member State governments , to ensure that a more level playing field exists between fishing industries in the different Member States , which from time-to-time will be affected by recovery plans . 
Madam President , I had the honour to represent Mr Poettering at the Conference of Presidents ' meeting , when this matter was discussed , as you well recall . 
The issue was whether we had time to take a lot of reports , because the agenda for this part-session is already highly complicated and very busy . 
I suggested that these two reports be taken with a major report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs by Mr Corbett himself , and said it would be good to put together a whole package of changes to the Rules , because we need certain levels of voting throughout . 
There did not seem to be any dissent in by the Conference of Presidents at the time and it was hardly questioned . 
Therefore the recommendation of the Conference of Presidents was that these should be taken together as a package when Mr Corbett 's own report comes forward . 
Mr Schmid has done an excellent piece of work with his report on Echelon and it is something which must be voted on by the whole House as soon as possible . 
However , I tend to the view expressed by Mr Vitorino that one has heard of both God and Echelon but one can not be sure that either of them exists . 
I also take the view , which I believe , Madam President , is sustained and supported by your words at the beginning of today 's sitting , that it is extremely important that we debate and vote on the issue of terrorism - which is a very real one - as soon as possible this week . 
Should Mr Barón Crespo 's proposal not have the effect of moving the report on terrorism then I would be very happy to support it . 
Mr President , I should like to congratulate Mr Menrad and Mr Mayer on their reports . 
That is wrong and Parliament is right to say that at some future date we should be challenging this in court . 
We were told by someone who was sent out that we had all been made redundant . 
I remember that quite clearly because the people who owned the factory still lived in big houses , still drove big cars and still went on holidays . 
Mr President , when we embarked on this exercise all of us knew that the reform of the Commission was never going to be easy , it was never going to be smooth and it was never going to be quick , because we had 40 years of entrenched views and in trying to change that we were always going to have to overcome some problems . 
Despite these obstacles , I have to say , having listened to the Commissioner , we have congratulate him on the progress that he has made so far and we also have to congratulate the staff trade union for having gone into negotiation and made headway in a number of areas of reform . 
It is important that this question is down here because I would like to touch on a couple of points that some of my colleagues have raised . 
Mr Harbour - rightly so - raised the question of timing . 
Timing is important because , if you get the timing wrong , it impacts on the morale of staff and once the morale of staff starts to fall then that has an impact on career improvements , advancement , etc. , and once that starts - they do not move forward . 
All these points go together . 
I was glad that Mr Harbour touched on the question of the linear career structure , it is a big issue and one that we have to face up to as the Commissioner is well aware . 
I would add that I agree that whistle-blowing is now in the public knowledge . 
However , whistle-blowing has a different ramification in the west of Scotland : it tends to indicates flutes and that does not go down too well in my part of the world . 
I slightly disagree with my colleague Mrs Guy-Quint . 
On the question of consultation : we have been consulted at every opportunity . 
She did argue again for a more protracted period of reform , but as we said , if we spin it out longer and longer it impacts upon the morale of the staff and that impacts on the performance of the staff . 
We have to keep this as short as possible . 
The whole question of retirement : I was the person responsible for piloting the question of the retirement package through Parliament and it is a wonderful package . 
I would love to be offered the same . 
Can I say to the Commissioner , we heard quite clearly about the breaking of the Heading 5 ceiling . 
We realise that it is not in the domain of the Commission and maybe it is high time that some of us were to look at some of the other institutions and how they were getting on with on with that . 
In conclusion , we have made significant progress . 
It is important that we are kept informed of the progress . 
I am glad to hear what the Commissioner said , because only by that and by monitoring what is happening can we have an impact . 
If obstacles do occur , we can then start trying to tackle them , here and in the other institutions as well . 
Madam President , I have the honour to bring this report to the House on behalf of the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs . 
It was felt appropriate for the chairman of the committee to pilot through the House a report on a matter which requires a wide consensus of support . 
As a Liberal Democrat , I regard terrorist acts as a unique category of crime which negates democracy . 
They are designed to destroy the very basis of civil society and I am grateful to committee colleagues for their support for this view and for our subsequent recommendations . 
There are some who see my report as a response to current terrorist attacks on the Iberian Peninsula . 
I share the profound concern of those who recognise this as an open wound in Europe ' s polity and on behalf of the committee I extend to them my deepest sympathy and solidarity . 
In my mind , however , my analysis and recommendations should be no more and no less a response to the situation there than to similar situations which have existed , and in some cases continue to pose a threat , in Northern Ireland , in the UK , in Corsica , in France , in Germany , in Italy or other countries which have been subject to attack by ideological terrorist groups . 
Terrorism is not a new phenomenon , but today it has many new aspects and features . 
Links between terrorists in different countries now form part of the fretwork of internationally organised crime . 
In August , we saw evidence of contacts between terrorists in Northern Ireland and their counterparts in Colombia . 
Such links enhance the capacity of those who use terror for political ends to find weapons , exchange ideas on techniques and escape the arm of the law . 
Terrorism is also inspired by new motives and new weapons . 
Some animal welfare groups launch campaigns to terrorise those connected , sometimes only tenuously , to experiments on live animals . 
Some environmental protection groups harass those involved in oil exploration or exploitation . 
Computer terrorism and environmental terrorism are worrying features of today ' s world . 
Previous attempts by democratic societies to tackle this threat have met with varying success . 
Where they have signally failed is in the field of international cooperation between law enforcement agencies or judicial authorities . 
In the case of the European Union , the tools to improve such cooperation are provided by Articles 29 and 31 of the TEU and yet governments have hesitated to use them . 
Such reluctance is strangely out of place in a Union founded on the values of humanity and dignity , freedom , equality and solidarity , respect for human rights and freedoms and the rule of law . 
The decision of Member States to make the Union an area of freedom , security and justice should provide a basis for urgency in tackling a growing terrorist challenge . 
An unqualified rejection of terrorist organisations and of terrorism should lead to a coherent and binding set of coordinated policies and a spirit of cooperation between governments at all levels . 
Cooperation between France and Spain or between Britain and Ireland has improved in recent months and yet the opportunities offered by the Amsterdam Treaty for more effective action have not been grasped . 
I would like to thank Members from all parties in this House for their generous advice and assistance to me in drawing up this report . 
The report commands a wide consensus of opinion . 
Where the state is not prepared scrupulously to pursue criminal actions against soldiers or policemen guilty of torture , it has little legitimacy . 
Nonetheless I am opposed to Amendment No 2 , which could be interpreted as justifying terrorism and to Amendment No 1 , which would delay action in this fight . 
I believe that the legal systems of all the EU Member States have the capacity to guarantee justice . 
Unless we are prepared to trust each other ' s judicial systems and democratic practices , however , more and more families will be deprived of their loved ones as innocent people lose their lives to those who murder for political ends . 
My report therefore calls on the Council of Ministers to establish common minimal laws and penalties to counter terrorist acts , to abolish formal extradition procedures for those suspected or convicted of terrorist crimes and to establish a European search and arrest warrant in the fight against terrorist groups . 
Some may regard such measures as extreme . 
I believe that all are justified in tackling a form of crime designed to destroy democracy based on the rule of law and I hope that the Commission and Council will respond early to this call for action . 
Mr President , the safety and quality of blood products have never been so important . 
Every week we hear across the EU story after story about this issue . 
I believe that every Member of the House wants to be reassured with the knowledge that there is a level of safety and quality of blood and blood products throughout the transfusion process in Member States . 
For our citizens it means that in the unfortunate situation where , for instance , you have had an accident on holiday and you require a blood transfusion , you can guarantee the quality and safety being the same , whether it is on a Greek island or on a Scottish island . 
As we all know , the main area of difference between Members has been on the issue of remunerated and non-remunerated blood products . 
I believe that the preferred option should be that blood is given voluntarily . 
As the European Blood Alliance outline , voluntary and non-remunerated donations of blood and blood components are considered to be a gift from healthy citizens to those in need . 
But more importantly , the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights prohibits the making of the human body and its parts a source of financial gain . 
We as a parliament , and within the institutions , have consistently advocated voluntary , non-remunerated donations . 
Evidence shows that the prevalence of viruses and diseases which may be transmitted through blood is higher in those donors who are remunerated than those who donate without receiving payment . 
The oral amendment advocated by Mrs Korhola to Amendment No 43 is greatly welcomed . 
I hope Members will support it tomorrow . 
In conclusion , the safety , quality and standard of blood and blood products is an important issue which we have to get right . 
Perhaps in the second reading the rapporteur could organise outside this Chamber an opportunity for Members to donate blood . 
After all , as Members , we should lead by example . 
Giving blood is a positive act of citizenship . 
Mr President , there are 4 500 farmers of British , Dutch , German and Greek origin who own 8.3 million hectares of land in Zimbabwe . 
Zimbabwe depends on the success of agriculture and the contribution of these farmers is vital to sustain its economy . 
There is money available from the United Kingdom government under the Lancaster House Agreement and there is a willingness among the white farmers to give up 80 % of their land to settle the black families . 
Mugabe must accept such a solution . 
I sympathise with the farmers and farm workers of Zimbabwe , as my family was a victim of similar confiscation and nationalisation . 
My family has lived in Tanzania for 166 years , much longer than many white farmers in Zimbabwe . 
President Mugabe must follow Mr Mandela and accept reconciliation and democracy , allow the white farmers to thrive and continue farming and accept that Zimbabwe belongs to the people of Zimbabwe and nobody has the right to deprive them of a decent life based on peace and democracy . 
Mr President , Mauritania is a vast country and almost 90 % of its land is desert . 
I was impressed by what President Taya has done over the years in a country as poor as this . 
He is quite strong , he is quite popular . 
What I shall certainly do is embarrass the government of Mauritania at the ACP Conference to make sure this practice does not continue and the opposition is allowed to operate freely so that there is accountability of the ministers . 
It is better for the president of the country and the people of the country . 
Mr President , I have the honour to have my name attached to this report but most of the work has been done by my Christian Democrat colleague , Mr Ingo Schmitt , who took this report through committee . 
The Commission has proposed a Council directive on minimum standards for procedures in Member States for granting and withdrawing refugee status . 
It is my honour to present on behalf of the committee a number of amendments to these proposals . 
We recognise that these amendments are not binding but we hope that they will be considered carefully and taken on board in policy formulation . 
We aim to secure for asylum seekers the right to remain on the territory of a Member State until their appeal has been decided . 
We recommend special attention be paid to the cases of applications from women and children who have been particularly vulnerable to abuse and attack in the countries from which they flee . 
We seek to improve access to legal assistance for those seeking asylum and to emphasise that asylum seekers should not be sent back to places where their lives might be in danger . 
As a general rule , we reject or resist the practice of holding asylum seekers in detention centres . 
I for one welcome the recent United Kingdom court ruling against the UK government 's practice of locking asylum seekers in detention centres , however modern those centres may be . 
We believe that asylum seekers who are often escaping persecution of the worst kind in their homelands have the right to be treated with dignity when they reach our shores . 
We understand the pressures on Member States but we reject the creeping tendency we see towards a dilution of the rights of asylum seekers . 
We believe that the determination of refugee status must remain a legal matter and not a matter of politics or one of political expediency . 
The health of a society is judged not only by its practices but also by the direction in which its face is set and my committee believes that the Commission 's policy is taking us in the right direction even if we seek greater clarity in the rights of some of those to whom it is directed . 
It is not only a question of our legal and humanitarian obligations but also a question of economic and administrative common sense . 
The more asylum seekers that a government rejects - perhaps in the hope of courting short-term popular support of the basest nature - the more appeals it will face , the more it will be tied down in lengthy processes which will hit the taxpayer in the pocket . 
Our amendments seek to ensure not only administrative efficiency but also a humanitarian approach to the position of those on our planet who deserve our support and protection . 
I hope the House will follow the line that has been put forward by the committee in this report . 
Madam President , Mrs Banotti has already raised the matter of the effect of the acts of terrorism on airlines . 
It is more than airlines : the European tourism industry is Europe 's biggest industry , and the World Travel and Tourism Council estimates at the present time that two million jobs could be lost in Europe . 
I have just returned from the United States where hotel accommodation is currently about 20 % of capacity and aircraft are operating at between 25 and 33 % of capacity . 
There has been a huge reaction and I hope the Council and , in particular , the Commission can do something to help before matters get really serious in Europe . 
Madam President , I would like to move the debate on to ground which has not been much talked about and to the remarks Mr Prodi made in his introductory statement about the regional element . 
I would like to do so particularly from the standpoint of my own constituency , Scotland , but not only from that point of view . 
It is interesting to note , when you reflect on Scotland , that about 80 % of the competences exercisable by the Scottish Parliament concern domains in which the European Union has a shared competence . 
When we make laws here , the Scottish Parliament and government are bound by them and have to put them into effect ; that is quite right and it is the same across other similar regions . 
But sometimes it can produce ridiculous results , for example when environmental laws are too detailed to allow sensible local discretion in adapting common principles to local situations . 
The water problems of the Island of Islay or the Glen of Strathspey are hardly comparable with those of the Rhine basin . 
A one-size-fits-all approach to water law can have absurd results , for example in respect of the Scotch malt whisky industry , despite its established environmental friendliness over 200 years . 
The White Paper says , as did Commissioner Prodi this morning , that the Commission will consult regional and local government early in the policy-formation process and will seek to legislate so that local knowledge is effectively deployed in the implementation process . 
That is quite right and very welcome , though it was a pity he only devoted one sentence in his opening speech to it . 
Many of us had expected that the White Paper would contain a far stronger statement , especially in relation to the so-called partner regions exercising their own constitutional powers of legislation . 
Europe will fail to regain or retain the affections of the citizens of the Union - and that includes the people in Scotland and our counterparts in many similar lands such as Catalonia , Flanders , Wales , Galicia , the Basque country - unless the regional and local governments with whom people there finally identify are fully respected partners in the governance of Europe . 
We are the same size and population as many of the existing Member States , the same as many of the adjoining States and we are bigger than quite a few of them . 
It is often said that big , important regions of large countries do better in the Union than small Member States . 
I doubt it and nothing in the White Paper has yet persuaded me that is true . 
Madam President , I condemn without reservation terrorism and murder . 
I agree with my colleagues that there is no reason for it and no-one has a right to carry out such acts . 
Terrorists choose violence rather than the ballot box , inflicting death and pain on innocent civilians , justifying their actions by flying the banner of religion , race or political sovereignty . 
Islam , like other great world religions , such as Judaism and Christianity , is a way of life for over one thousand million people in this world . 
These millions of Muslims , from Indonesia to Nigeria , from Central Asia to the leafy suburbs of California , knew nothing about Osama bin Laden before 11 September . 
For these millions and for Islam there is no place for terrorists like him or any others , whoever they are and wherever they come from . 
These terrorists have no authority to act on behalf of any people , race or religion . 
Therefore , we must fight terrorism and act against terrorists , not innocent civilians who pursue their lives peacefully and who should have the freedom to believe in a religion of their choice . 
Human life is precious and the death of innocent civilians , wherever it occurs , is simply not acceptable . 
Reason without passion is sterile , passion without reason is heat . 
I especially liked what he said about there being no room for compromises . 
Is the EU position absolutely fixed , with no likelihood of it being altered in the near future ? 
I should also like to raise the point about international funding for decommissioning . 
Is that to come from the Commission 's own budget ? 
What happens if there is insufficient money for that decommissioning ? 
Madam President , I welcome everybody here again tonight . 
We probably spend more nights together than we do with our respective wives . 
I should also like to pay tribute to a number of people who have worked on this report , not just within the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market but also within the Commission and the Council . 
It was not a difficult conciliation but it was successful and I was very pleased at the outcome . 
I should also like to give the thanks of probably about a third of the population of the European Union to Parliament , for I am anticipating that the vote tomorrow will go the right way . 
There are something like 35 million registered disabled people within the European Union ; we have 120 million elderly people . 
The two groups are obviously not mutually exclusive , but they make up about a third of the population of the European Union . 
The outcome of tomorrow 's vote will very largely decide what their quality of life in the future will be . 
For years now people with disabilities have not been able to get around the towns and cities of the European Union as they should ; they have been trapped for too long in their own houses . 
If this directive is adopted tomorrow , it will open up that door . 
It will be one small step towards freeing a lot of people who , as I said earlier , have been trapped . 
I would like to convey their thanks to Parliament . 
I realise that some of my colleagues on the right of this House have had difficulties with this directive , mainly because of its technical nature . 
I fully understand and appreciate that . 
For once we would be making a difference . 
Too often we stand up in this Chamber and talk about various great plans , schemes and motions , etc. and they do not impact on people 's lives . 
Here is a small thing that does impact on the lives of the European citizen and it is something we should all be proud of . 
I understand my colleagues on the right will be abstaining tomorrow . 
That is unfortunate but it is , at least , an improvement on voting against in the second reading . 
I would ask them , however , to look at this again and cast their votes in favour , because all along I have tried to leave out the technicalities and have concentrated purely on the policy and philosophy of getting people with disabilities mobile again . 
That is an aim and objective I think we would all agree with . 
In that respect , I have really not much more to say , because this has been discussed at length . 
The Commissioner is well aware of the contents of the report and probably could recite them as well as I could . 
Finally , I should like to thank very much all those who have helped draft this report and who tomorrow will help to adopt it . 
Madam President , the Liberal Democrats in this House welcome the decisions of the extraordinary European Council . 
We are pleased that it took on board proposals from this House in the field of justice and home affairs on combating terrorism and indeed that it reviewed the Union 's policies in other areas to ensure that we have joined-up thinking in our approach to this very serious problem . 
We regret , however , that it took a shock like the bombing of the Twin Towers and the Pentagon to push the Union into using the legal powers that it has under the Treaty of Amsterdam to act in fighting terrorism . 
Liberal Democrats welcome particularly the Commission 's proposals of yesterday for a Council Regulation to freeze the assets of terrorist groups . 
We note its request for urgency and will be pushing this morning within the committee I have the honour to chair to make a recommendation to Parliament this afternoon to adopt those proposals . 
I hope that the Committee of Permanent Representatives meeting this morning will add its request for urgency to that of the Commission . 
I hope they will be dealt with at Laeken and through the convention which will be established . 
Commissioner Patten yesterday rightly lamented the inability of the European Union to act fast in situations like this and thus to enjoy the confidence of its Member States and to coordinate the policies of its Member States in an area where a supranational threat requires a supranational response . 
At times like this the Union must act fast , but finds it can not act fast . 
The mechanisms of the third pillar leave Mr bin Laden laughing all the way to the cash machine . 
I challenge the national governments to explain to our citizens why Europe has been incapable of acting fast because of the curious and complicated mechanisms of the third pillar . 
When we act fast we find that we need urgency and urgency frequently leads to bad law . 
I hope that the convention set up by Laeken will look at invoking Article 42 of the TEU to bring these policy areas fully within the core competences of the Union . 
Many measures will be needed in the coming months . 
Commissioner Vitorino has provided us with an anti-terrorism road map outlining such measures . 
Clearly , in our consideration of these , a delicate balance will need to be struck between the security needs of our citizens and the civil liberties which make our democracy what it is . 
The President-in-Office said this morning that we should not be blown off course on our other agendas . 
Those agendas include our agenda to consolidate citizens ' rights within the Union and our agenda of anti-discrimination . 
Liberals in this House will defend , with the President-in-Office , the rights of EU citizens . 
The House has received a proposed regulation on the freezing of assets . 
That regulation could potentially , depending on its implementation , have a disastrous effect on many legitimate Muslim-owned businesses . 
Therefore Liberals will be calling for a sunset clause in that regulation giving it a limited life to make sure that it is not being abused in its implementation . 
We look forward to proposals from the Council for the involvement of the European Parliament in determining the names that will be put on the list in the annex to that regulation . 
In conclusion , Article 6 says that the Union is founded on rights . 
The Charter defines those rights and we hope that the convention will agree to insert the Charter fully into the Treaties . 
Mr President , this first vote on our order paper today relates to the request from the Commission for urgent procedure on the measure you have outlined . 
In exceptional circumstances , following the attack on the Twin Towers and the Pentagon , the Committee on Citizens ' Freedom and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs met this morning and approved , without report , the proposal submitted to us . 
I understand that we will also receive , following this morning 's Coreper meeting , a request from the Council for urgency , to add to that from the Commission . 
It is the recommendation of the committee , which I have the honour to chair , that we accept that amendment . 
If that is approved by the House , I hope you will confirm that would give the political groups until 6 p.m. this evening to submit amendments to this proposed measure . 
President-in-Office , European industry is losing its competitive edge in regard to reaching the targets that you and the Council set for it at Lisbon by the extreme cost and time delays involved in obtaining patents in Europe . 
I believe the Belgian presidency undertook to make a special effort to have the Community patent installed and implemented during its presidency . 
I would be interested to know what progress is being made and whether you really are resolving the language issue in the European Patent Office . 
I should just like to underline Mr Staes 's point on the importance of the language regime , while not ignoring the importance of the point my colleague , Mr Purvis , has made about the need for speed . 
Nevertheless , the whole business of taking research on to the development stage is important . 
If we are to have good research in all the universities and all the areas of the Community , it is really important for people to be able to work in their own language , even though , of course , most scientists work in English much of the time . 
My question was implicit : does the Minister agree ? 
Mr President , a family in a mud hut in rural Africa without access to clean water , electricity , hospital or community centre is simply devastated when it discovers that a member of the family is suffering from any one of the three diseases HIV/AIDS , TB or malaria . 
Therefore , my objective was to produce a report with recommendations that would support a programme of action that is possible to fund , practical to implement , and most beneficial to those who are the poor victims of such infections . 
Such a report requires wide consultation with colleagues from all political groups , the European Commission , the pharmaceutical industry , UN agencies , NGOs and civil society , so that a consensus based on facts can be achieved and appropriate action taken to target the problem , making most efficient use of limited resources . 
I had that wide consultation , and I want to thank all colleagues who were so helpful , in particular Dr Fransen and her team and Commissioner Nielson 's department . 
Dr Fransen has worked in Africa herself , so she was a mine of information . 
I also want to thank all colleagues from all political parties , especially in the Committee on Development and Cooperation , related committees and , of course , the secretariats , who were extremely helpful . 
The report promotes the following : a global fund financed by G8 , the EU , oil-rich nations and others to finance access to and supply of medication and treatment ; a global strategy to implement a programme of action to treat and prevent communicable diseases ; tiered pricing of medicines from the pharmaceutical industry to ensure wide access to treatment ; support for health infrastructure to scan , diagnose , treat and monitor patients , as supply of medicines in itself is inadequate ; use of incentives - both financial and legislative - to enhance research and development to produce new medicines and vaccines by both industry and the public sector ; the European Commission to work closely with the governments of developing countries , UN agencies , NGOs and civil society to implement the programme . 
It promotes appropriate future legislation to give more flexibility in the implementation of TRIPS to encourage transfer of technology for local manufacture of essential medicines wherever this is viable . 
There are four paragraphs in the report which require minor changes because of errors or difficulty in implementation . 
My intention in paragraph 14 was to ensure that if we are to find the lowest prices for medicines for poor countries and for the patients in these countries , we must ensure that the developing countries do not impose import duty and taxes on imports of essential medicines . 
I also want to make an oral amendment to paragraph 9 to replace `` 10 % '' with the word `` appropriate '' , because you can not dictate to the European Commission and the Committee on Budgets what exact percentage of money should be spent - there are budget lines , which are already agreed in other committees and in other reports . 
So `` appropriate '' is the word , rather than `` 10 % '' . 
In paragraph 20 , I would like to propose an oral amendment , which I hope Members of this House will support , to delete the second part which begins `` in which a doubling of the budget ... '' . 
Finally , I wish to clarify the issue of the patent life of medicines , as some colleagues have expressed concern . 
A new drug costs about USD 500 m to research , test and bring to market . 
Unless this sum is recoverable , nobody will invest in research and the development of drugs for diseases of the poor . 
No government can finance such investment so we must encourage the pharmaceutical industry to continue to finance research . 
Their patent is in any case irrelevant after seven or ten years as new drugs are developed and doctors will change a treatment regime , thereby precipitating the fall in price of that medicine still under patent . 
The real trick - and this is what I have been trying to do in this report - is to secure tiered pricing for all medication - new and old - so that the poor patients benefit whilst the industry continues to pay for research and development . 
My Amendment No 1 addresses this problem and I have inserted the word `` review '' to replace the word `` reduce '' , in order to cooperate with colleagues concerned about this issue . 
I hope that this House will give me full support for this report , which I did not try to make political . 
It concerns something that we must do for the poor so that we can tell the world , especially the poor , that the European Union is concerned about their problems and will take the lead in fighting disease and poverty throughout the world . 
The European Parliament has been asked to act urgently and decisively to freeze funds that could be used for terrorists . 
It would be absurd to go forward with a list of names that could refer ambiguously to thousands of people in the Islamic world , rolling innocent people in with sinister ones . 
We are effectively challenging the Council to keep faith with us and not delay matters by devising a new version without judicial safeguards . 
Mr President , while Mrs Thors was speaking the Commissioner was interrupted by two different people , so he was not paying attention to what she asked and what she said . 
But Mr Nielson was otherwise distracted . 
I would hope that he gives us a proper response when his turn comes to speak . 
Madam President , I was not aware that this was going to arise and I apologise therefore to Mrs Villiers for not being able to talk to her about it earlier . 
She is quite right to say that agreement has been reached with the Council and it is now up to Parliament to have the third reading . 
We pressed extremely hard - and you , Madam President , were involved in this - to try and get to a position where we could be flexible and act very rapidly as a parliament . 
Unfortunately , we have to await the documentation that comes from the Council in all 11 languages of the Community before we actually have Council 's position formally adopted so that we can come to a conclusion with a third reading . 
I would like to talk very briefly about the first of these reports to do with the freedom of movement of people . 
It is essential that we have a European legal space and that we pursue its development with judicial cooperation in civil matters . 
The rapporteur quite rightly identifies the problems here and recognises that just as the single market required a massive benchmarking exercise , a massive exercise in approximation and mutual recognition , so too will the development of a European legal space require this . 
In the second report the rapporteur looks at the problems that have emerged with the Schengen Information System and the opportunity to move forward to the second version of it , which clearly will be needed with enlargement . 
Sadly , the Belgian and Swedish initiatives , which propose a regulation for the First Pillar and a decision for the Third Pillar , show how ridiculous it is still to be operating with these two pillars . 
In particular , Article 96 , which is the article governing the data on those refused entry , must be in the First Pillar . 
It contains the personal details of 1.3 million people and will contain substantially more with enlargement of the Union . 
In conclusion I would draw the House 's attention to the report from Justice last year that found significant defects in data protection , poor quality of data and obstacles placed in the way of individuals seeking to correct mistakes . 
We must take account of this . 
Mr President , I refer to the common position on Directive 1998/242 and the capital requirements that it will impose on investment management firms . 
In Scotland , there is a long tradition of investment management going back to the opening of the American west in the 19th century . 
These investment managers were usually law firms , private partnerships , which managed the assets of their clients very successfully . 
To this day , there are investment firms of this type , private partnerships , sole proprietorships and other structures with limited capital . 
The interests of clients are fully safeguarded as their assets are held by independent and fully capitalised and regulated depositories . 
The requirements of this type will be a hurdle for new enterprising entrants into an industry which requires a regular injection of new blood . 
At the very least , it should provide for this capital to be available by means of guarantees from banks or by insurance policies to cover professional and operational risk . 
But the common position , for some not very apparent reason , restricts such cover to only 50 % of the requirement . 
The common position provides for the Commission to report on this matter within five years of entry into force of the directive . 
I should like to put on record now the request that such a report should specifically consider whether any capital requirement at all is necessary for investment management companies , and certainly that it should be greatly reduced . 
It also has a lot of sympathy for the amendments submitted by Mr Bushill-Matthews but feels that the Weiler report is not the appropriate report for such amendments . 
As a representative of Scotland and a member of the European Free Alliance section of my Group , I particularly welcome paragraph 13 of the report , calling for the involvement of `` national parliaments and , in federal or highly regionalised States , the regional authorities including participation in the Council itself according to Article 203 of the EC Treaty . '' 
For Scotland and similar countries this will only be a start , but it will be an important one . 
The reforms urged in this report all go in the right direction . 
Mr President , it is a pleasure to speak on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs , substantially in support of what my colleague , Mrs Attwooll , from the Committee on Fisheries , has said . 
The Committee on Legal Affairs looks at this issue through legal spectacles , as you would expect . 
In recital 3 the Commission said : `` Measures to improve safety should not lead to an increase in fishing effort and such measures should therefore be applied within the existing capacity objectives for the fleet '' . 
Therefore proportionality requires deletion of that . 
It could result in fishermen being penalised for the acts or omissions of their government and would thus constitute vicarious punishment . 
Mr President , first of all , I commend my colleague , Mrs Attwooll for the work she has done in this report . 
I know that some controversy has arisen - and Mrs Attwooll mentioned this - over the question of aid for measures to improve safety in navigation ; working conditions ; and hygiene on board fishing vessels . 
It seems to me pointless that we try to achieve a reduction in over-fishing as a core policy objective on the one hand , while continuing to facilitate cheating at the taxpayer 's expense on the other . 
The whole point of the MAGP is to reduce fishing effort and bring it into better balance with the existing fish stocks . 
Only this week the need for continued for vigilance in this area was again highlighted with the publication of the ICES report on the prospects for catches in 2002 . 
They point out that a number of fish stocks remain in a state of great jeopardy , particularly cod , although they also point out that there have been slight improvements in haddock and whiting stocks in the North Sea . 
In that respect I was horrified to read that Danish fisheries inspectors last month boarded a Danish industrial fishing boat and discovered 114 tonnes of juvenile cod in a 543 tonne total catch that was supposed to be composed entirely of sand eels . 
I hope that when we come to vote on this report later today , we bear in mind that the whole point of MAGP philosophy is to reduce over-exploitation and nothing we do in applying public aid to the EU fleet should undermine that principle . 
Mr President , I should like to add my thanks to the rapporteur , a fellow Scot , for her work on this document , and likewise to my SNP colleague , Mr MacCormick , for leading the Committee on Legal Affairs ' consideration of this report which I support . 
The size of our fishing fleet in the European Union is one of the greatest problems that we are faced with when considering CFP reform , but the real measure of activity should be effort as opposed to fleet size . 
In order to secure what we all want , sustainable fisheries , then surely fishing effort must be made to correspond to available resources . 
I agree with the need to extend MAGP4 , but I have some concerns , in three areas in particular . 
We should be looking for tighter control and management to ensure that these provisions are not used to circumvent the rules . 
Safety must remain a priority and I hope the Commission will recognise this and also make up for its failure to include adequate provisions on safety in the Green Paper . 
It is also necessary to make sure that those Member States which claim to have met their MAGP targets are not simply transferring their vessels to other flags . 
Thirdly , the proposals which limit financial assistance from FIFG to segments where reduction of fishing effort is obtained through capacity reductions only seems to me unjust and would discriminate against fishermen whose Member States choose to reduce effort through schemes such as days at sea . 
One reason why these targets are not met is that some Member State governments have not been prepared to match funding for restructuring . 
The Commission must look at ways of ensuring that restructuring funds can be distributed in an equitable fashion throughout the EU fishing industry . 
This evening the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs will adopt a text , drafted in cooperation with the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy , which we believe is a strong basis for a Parliament resolution on this matter . 
If it is not possible to have a debate in plenary with the Council , we request authorisation to submit this text to the plenary in the form of a draft recommendation for a vote on Thursday , pursuant to Article 39 of the Treaty and Rule 94 of our Rules of Procedure . 
Madam President , while Mr Dupuis was held in Laos last week , a large number of your colleagues , including myself , were detained in Brussels airport for eight hours , from 3 p.m. to 11 p.m. , because the government of Belgium would not ensure the free movement of European citizens around Europe , including that of MEPs . 
We could not get out of Brussels at all ; we had to go back , and in the end departed from Charleroi the next day . 
It took me 23 hours to get home . 
Could you make representations to the Belgian Government , and to other governments , for that matter , to the effect that all European citizens , not just MEPs , should be entitled to free movement in Europe and that unjustified and illegal blockades of airports should be dealt with by the authorities in the proper manner ? 
Mr President , it is customary to thank rapporteurs but we genuinely want to pay tribute to Mrs Maij-Weggen for the work she has done on this . 
We , as elected politicians , are responsible to our electorate for ensuring that all proceedings are as open as possible . 
With that in mind , I should like briefly to mention the amendments in the name of our Group . 
I hope Mrs Maij-Weggen will accept the first one , extending the rules to cover all committees . 
I only have limited experience of being a vice-chairman of the recent Echelon committee , but I see no reason why special committees and committees of inquiry should not be bound . 
The further extension later in the amendment that broads out the range of documents from Members which count as parliamentary documents is helpful as well . 
I hope that will be accepted . 
On the question of political responsibility , it seems to us that for some questions the Conference of Presidents would be a better organ to decide matters than the Bureau , in the sense that in the Conference of Presidents people are representing their political party , whereas in the Bureau people are supposed to speak for the Parliament as a whole , rather than putting forward a political case . 
Our third amendment suggests that we need a parliamentary definition of sensitive documents . 
Mr Cashman has challenged the validity of this . 
We think that within our rules , there is room for an expanded definition in relation to parliamentary documents . 
We will check that and withdraw the amendment if , on reflection , we think we have gone too far . 
Finally , we should like a split vote in relation to the adoption of security rules for the EP to leave out the words ` on the basis of a proposal from the Bureau ' which would again push the responsibility back on to the Conference of Presidents . 
However we very much appreciate the spirit in which Mrs Maij-Weggen has put this forward and we are grateful for her willingness to look carefully at our amendments . 
Parliaments must be transparent . 
It is very sad that the more we open our glass-houses , the less people seem to look into them . 
The media need to help in this as well . 
If this Parliament is to be transparent it must be reported , as well as open . 
Mr President , in line with Lisbon and Stockholm Summit declarations and with the report of this Parliament on the future of the biotech industry , the life sciences are a top priority of the Sixth Framework Programme . 
This priority is upheld in Mr Caudron 's excellent report . 
Parliament must continue to be consistent and add its support to the progress which our scientists and researchers can provide . 
Yet as representatives of the people of Europe , we in this Parliament must also define the limits which will provide an appropriate ethical context for this progress . 
Genetic research promises much in preventing and curing many of man 's most dreaded hereditary diseases . 
But genetic engineering for this purpose must not extend into eugenics . 
Embryo research must not lead to the deliberate creation of embryos for research , though we may accept that early stage supernumerary embryos genuinely resulting from in-vitro fertilisation , from spontaneous miscarriages or from therapeutic abortions for the mother 's health , and which are destined for destruction in any case , can legitimately and ethically be available for research in Member States where there is strict regulation and supervision . 
The amendment submitted by Mr Trakatellis , Mr Nisticò and myself - No 333 - seeks to restrict and define more exactly than the existing text where these limits lie . 
I commend it to the Parliament . 
I was alerted to this issue of age discrimination in the Council at our previous part-session when I was asked what I thought . 
My immediate reaction was that , while on the one hand we are trying to encourage fairer treatment of older workers , yet , on the other hand , in one of our own EU institutions - and from what the minister said in more than one - we are discriminating against those aged 45 and over . 
It is a sad state of affairs when those aged 45 are not considered for employment . 
What talent , knowledge and experience is lost because of this ! 
I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council what measures are being taken to treat all job applications equally ? 
It was interesting to hear about the inter-institutional recruitment office . 
What is the time-scale for its creation and what common rules will all institutions have ? 
Does that mean it has been raised to 51 or has 39 been raised to 45 ? 
Mr President , I would like to thank the Commission for this proposal . 
The rapporteur gives me no option but to disagree with him . 
Only yesterday in this House we passed a resolution giving the European Parliament 's opinion on the third round of negotiations for the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control . 
The Commission proposal will help people to stop smoking . 
This proposal will introduce a cash minimum amount of cigarette duty . 
Currently the rule is expressed as a percentage of tax , inclusive of the retail selling price , and therefore has little effect on Member States and applicant countries where retail prices are already low . 
The more expensive a packet of cigarettes , the bigger the incentive to stop smoking . 
Some say that the most effective way to help smokers cure their addiction is to make cost the issue . 
Therefore any measures to reduce smoking are more than welcome and are more important to my mind than any arguments which support the tobacco industry . 
As regards smuggling , unlike the rapporteur I believe this proposal will prevent smuggling within the EU . 
Minimum EU rates of duty are sensible and effective in tackling the scourge of smuggling . 
The Commission 's proposal is a good proposal and therefore should be wholeheartedly supported . 
Mr President , just before I begin on the Flemming report I want to speak about the Katiforis report , which we rejected . 
I feel very strongly that by rejecting that report we have done nothing today in this House to promote public health . 
We should never forget that tobacco is the biggest cause of preventable illness across the EU and that each year half a million EU citizens die needlessly due to tobacco . 
The Commission 's proposal would have helped people to stop smoking and it is very sad that we did not support this . 
However , on to the matter at hand - the Flemming report . 
Although the report was rejected , I should like to explain why I and my two colleagues from Scotland supported some of the amendments . 
Amendment No 5 was concerned with the more technical matter of water basins . 
We agree that water basin areas are not suitable bases for water pricing policies in all regions . 
Much of our water in Scotland is in inter-basin management and , therefore , we had to support it . 
Thirdly , the rejection of the Flemming report probably was ensuring that no one report could be hijacked by such a national interest . 
I hope we will continue the discussion on water , as so many of our citizens are very concerned with this issue . 
Mr President , the Union already has implicitly in the Treaties the bones of a Constitution . 
We all look to the Convention to make it explicit and clear and to create the proper legal framework for a thoroughly democratic Europe . 
That , of course , will involve , as has been said in parts of this debate , fully recognising the prerogatives and powers of this great all-European Parliamentary Assembly . 
But democracy at this level will not be effective unless it is also fully effective at the level of the little battalions : at the level of the local authorities , at the level of the constitutional regions , the self-governing internal nations of the Member States . 
Now that means that the Convention must look to that question as well , and improving governance in Europe must , as the Commission has said , look closely at the proper involvement of regional and local authorities . 
I thought that the Commission was somewhat timid in what they said about that , but alas , Parliament argues yet further timidity and talks down all the references in the White Paper to regional involvement with the Commission . 
We want to see a strengthening of the reference to the necessary involvement of the Commission and Parliament with the regional and local authorities , as well as with national parliaments . 
Madam President , it is a matter of regret and perhaps even of shame that it took the events of 11 September to push European governments into tackling effectively a problem which has plagued our continent for over a generation . 
In 1997 in Amsterdam , and again in 1999 in Tampere in Finland , the Heads of State and Government committed themselves to tackling terrorism . 
The events of 11 September have fortunately brought such action and I look forward to travelling to Washington shortly to talk about common action between the European Union and the United States of America . 
I would like to thank the political groups in this House for their cooperation in drawing up this report , particularly the Members from Spain . 
In my report , I broadly welcome the Commission proposals for a Council framework decision on combating terrorism and for a European arrest warrant . 
The amendments which I put forward seek to restrict the list of crimes defined as terrorist crimes and covered by the European arrest warrant to the most serious cross-border criminal offences , and if I may quote Amendment No 16 , it specifies those crimes `` which aim to destroy the fundamental freedoms , democracy , respect for human rights , civil liberties and the rule of law on which our societies are based '' . 
We seek too to insert safeguards for civil liberties by basing action clearly on international human rights documents , by reinforcing the principle of ne bis in idem , by taking account of time spent in detention awaiting trial and by allowing Member States refusal to extradite when there are manifestly sound reasons for doing so , including in those cases where a person found guilty could face a penalty of death . 
Moreover , we seek to provide aids to victims of terrorism and their families . 
The process of creating an area of freedom , security and justice is similar to that of creating the single market , but it is more urgent and , moreover , we are dealing not with the freedom of movement of goods , services or capital , but with the freedom of people . 
I would say to colleagues , and particularly to our Spanish colleagues , that in our determination to tackle terrorism , we must acknowledge that terrorists sometimes express political grievances , and that these require a political response . 
Council is discussing the proposals put forward by the Commission ; Parliament , which desperately needs powers of codecision , may be reconsulted on this matter . 
The Industry Committee accepts the desirability of moving to zero sulphur in petrol and diesel . 
The hotter burn of modern vehicle engines delivers higher efficiency and thereby cuts CO2 emissions . 
A majority vote in the committee demanded a rather faster implementation than the Commission proposed even if some of us were concerned at the Commission 's assertion that this will , in fact , produce a net increase in CO2 emissions . 
So please tell us , Commissioner , if you stand by your warning or whether you can accept the quicker implementation requested by both the Environment and the Industry Committees . 
We would also point out that the EU standard of 10 parts per million of sulphur contrasts with an American standard of 15 ppm of sulphur . 
This will make it difficult for us to import fuels from the USA in an emergency . 
We would also suggest that the Commission instigate research into the implications of ultra-fine particle emissions from gasoline diesel injection engines . 
The question of fuel quality for non-road and off-road machinery is still outstanding . 
We give this proposal a fair wind . 
Indeed , the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy would suggest that the Commission hoists a spinnaker and speeds up its implementation . 
Is the Commissioner prepared to accede to this demand ? 
At the G8 Summit held in July 2000 in Okinawa , the rich industrialised G8 countries pledged substantial funds to fight communicable diseases and help the sick in poor countries . 
In September last year the Commission held a conference on the subject in Brussels but no action followed . 
Four million of the poorest people died in one year . 
In July 2001 another meeting took place in Genoa and Mr Prodi announced to the world 's media a donation of EUR 120 million . 
My report , unanimously approved on 4 October this year has been sitting on the shelf collecting dust . 
The Council adopted a proposal for a legal basis for the fund to be implemented but so far not one euro has been given , and a further 2 million people have died . 
When terrorist bombs cause death the victims attract money very fast but the 3-4 million people who die from diseases are not in our minds . 
Why does it take the Commission so long to present a plan for implementation when they know that every day 10 000 people are dying ? 
We promise with pride but we fail to deliver . 
Do these people not matter to us ? 
The Commissioners have gone . 
There is no interest . 
Look at the audience in this Chamber , hardly anyone is here . 
That shows what priority the European Union gives to such an important project . 
This is not FYROM or Macedonia . 
This is AIDS affecting the poorest people in the world and it is about time that the EU contribution is not just EUR 20 per person dying , not just 1 % of what is required , but that it is EUR 6 billion per annum . 
Mr President , if Europe is to be the most competitive and dynamic economy in the world , as proudly stated at the Lisbon Council , then we must provide the conditions and the environment which will encourage our scientists to test the frontiers of knowledge . 
We can not hobble that search and yet we must also uphold the dignity of the human person . 
What is human dignity ? 
What is the dignity of someone with Parkinson 's disease , Alzheimer 's disease , cystic fibrosis or quadriplegia resulting from spinal injury ? 
Yes , the embryo also is due dignity , but we have large numbers of supernumerary embryos resulting from in vitro fertilisation and these are usually frozen and ultimately destroyed . 
Is it not better that these be made available for research purposes , with parental permission , rather than they be uselessly destroyed ? 
It is vital that any such research in these sensitive areas be done under strict regulation and only in those countries where it is permitted and where there is adequate regulation . 
To my friends I would say , the Good Samaritan crossed the road and helped his neighbour : your neighbour may have Parkinson 's disease , or Alzheimer 's disease or spinal injury , or diabetes . 
With due respect , would you pass by on the other side ? 
Transposition , however , is years behind . 
It is surely up to the Commission to insist with all the legal powers at its disposal on transposition in all the remaining countries . 
Too often , in all these areas of advance , the Commission and the Member States use fine words and then dither and dally weakly while Europe falls yet further behind . 
I wish to make a point of order to draw the attention of this House to the grave discourtesy and disrespect shown to it by a member of the Belgian presidency . 
I refer to Mrs Magda Aelvoet , Minister for Consumer Protection , Public Health and the Environment in the Federal Parliament of Belgium . 
I wrote to Mrs Aelvoet on 13 June 2001 - and that letter was signed by 20 Members of this House - requesting a meeting with her to raise the question of the fraudulent importation of cat and dog fur products into the EU from Asia and China . 
We received no reply to that letter . 
I wrote again on 12 July 2001 and received no reply . 
Mrs Alvoet came here to Strasbourg on 12 September 2001 to address an intergroup meeting on animal welfare . 
I raised this issue with her : she said that she had written to me and had extended an invitation to the MEPs who had signed the letter with me to come and meet her in Brussels . 
When I returned to Brussels , there was no sign of this letter . 
I wrote for a third time to Mrs Aelvoet requesting the letter and have received no reply . 
Three times I have followed up with telephone calls and again received no reply . 
I find this a grave discourtesy to the Members of this House who signed that letter and I also find it astonishing that a minister in the EU presidency should come before a packed meeting of an intergroup and say that she has written to me when she knew full well that this was a lie and no letter had been sent . 
I hope , therefore , Madam President that you will confirm , on behalf of this House , that this sort of behaviour by a minister in the presidency is gravely discourteous and not going to be tolerated in future . 
I certainly share the concern that Enrique Barón Crespo has raised at the failure of the Justice and Home Affairs ministers to reach agreement on the proposal for a European arrest warrant . 
I note , however that , in addition to Mr Verhofstadt 's planned visit to Rome , there will be an extraordinary meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs ministers on Thursday of this week . 
It must be hoped that agreement can be reached on that occasion . 
The House anticipated that an agreement might not be reached and recommended at least consideration of the use of Article 40 of the Treaty which would allow a number of countries to proceed on the basis of reinforced cooperation . 
Nobody wants that solution ; it must be hoped that we can reach agreement between 15 , but , one country must not be allowed to hold up progress in the fight against terrorism called for by the Heads of State and Government in Ghent . 
Colleagues will recall that we dealt with this matter in urgent procedure in October . 
I am pleased to be able to report that the Council has now accepted the legal base that was being proposed . 
However , we would contest the fact that neither of the two appendices is attached to the proposal , although we understand the reasons why . 
Nonetheless , we discussed this in committee last night and we recognise the urgency . 
We would propose an urgent procedure without report . 
It would then be up to the political groups to put forward amendments , which might be similar to those we adopted in October . 
Presentation by Mr Prodi of the Commission work for the 2002 programme and the communication on the future of the European Union and strengthening the Community method 
Commissioner , would I be mistaken in suggesting that perhaps the admirable arrangements at Doha had something to do with the relative success of that meeting compared with previous WTO meetings ? 
Perhaps we are finding a way of having a more civilised relationship with the NGOs than was evident in Seattle and Genoa ? 
Are you happy that we now have a more rational and civilised arrangement to deal with the representations of NGOs for the future ? 
Madam President , the adoption of Community action in the field of public health is greatly welcome . 
The new public health strategy will determine the EU 's focus on health for the next five years . 
That is why having clear priorities is so important : firstly , improving information and knowledge concerning health issues ; secondly , strengthening rapid reaction to health threats ; and , finally , tackling health determinants . 
However , as many of my colleagues have mentioned , the budget remains an issue . 
As many have mentioned , this is EUR 100 million more than the Council asked for in the common position . 
This is necessary in order for the programme to work effectively , and it is more than fair . 
I would like to take this opportunity , in light of 11 September , to ask the Commissioner if any new action to combat bioterrorism will be funded by a new budgetary proposal and not from the framework programme ? 
Finally , I would like to emphasise the importance of working with NGOs . 
I am alarmed that the Conservatives in this House have called for a split vote on the issue of NGO networks . 
I fear that this will undermine the partnership which has been built up under the previous programme where the Community relied on NGO networks to deliver messages such as the `` Europe Against Cancer Week '' . 
The new health programme is about protecting the health of all EU citizens , not just the privileged few . 
This will not be achieved without working with the EU citizens who are most interested and knowledgeable about public health . 
My report deals with the question of security at summits of the European Union and similar international gatherings and it looks also at the question of citizens ' rights . 
It is important that when Parliament looks at problems that affect the Union , it must do so without victimising individual countries . 
Just as my recent report on terrorism sought to be a generic report and not one that referred exclusively to the situation in the Basque country in Spain , so this report sets out also to be a generic report and not one that seeks to be particularly critical of any one country . 
We have seen violent protests at summits in EU countries - in Nice , Gothenburg and Genoa . 
Such protests have been serious , in the last instance resulting in a death . 
My report has been drawn up in my capacity as chairman of the Committee on Citizens ' Rights and Freedoms , Justice and Home Affairs and I am pleased to say that it has enjoyed a wide consensus in that committee . 
I thank my colleagues for the work they have put into it and recommend that they adopt the report as it stands , and vote against the 30 amendments which have been submitted , which seem to me to relate to issues that have already been dealt with in committee . 
In looking at the problems of violence that we have seen , the European Union must understand the causes of such violent protest and seek to prevent it . 
There seem to me to be two requirements in this . 
The first is that we must improve political dialogue on the right to peaceful assembly and to peaceful protest . 
The second is that we must find a firm , but proportionate , response to criminal behaviour by demonstrators . 
I note that in Sweden and in Italy judicial proceedings have followed from the violent protests that we saw . 
The European Union , too , needs to look at whether citizens ' rights have been violated , particularly in reference to Article 6 ( 1 ) and to Article 7 of our treaties . 
It must be recalled that Article 7 was strengthened by the European Council in Nice , which instructed the European institutions to monitor the application of fundamental rights even where there is simply a risk of a violation of them . 
In carrying out such surveillance , institutions must be guided by the European Charter on Fundamental Rights . 
Hence my report seeks to begin such a study of what has happened and look at whether we have in all cases abided by our commitments . 
We must avoid a situation where no answer is given because a society where citizens are afraid of their institutions - and perhaps more importantly institutions are afraid of their citizens - makes for a very weak democracy . 
In this context I welcome the démarche taken by Mr Guy Verhofstadt in seeking to engage in dialogue with civil society , in advance of the meetings that have been held under the Belgian Presidency . 
This approach needs to be complemented by a White Paper dealing with globalisation , looking at the European Union 's position as a major actor in an area for which the Union is directly responsible and perhaps bringing together a number of Commissioners from different disciplines to look at a global strategy for the European Union . 
We must look at Article 33 of the Treaty , which gives Member States the task of ensuring the maintenance of law and order , and see whether the responses have been appropriate . 
The weakness in cooperation between the Member States ' law and order authorities is a fundamental weakness of the Union . 
I hope that we will be able to examine this in the context of the creation of a European area of freedom , security and justice . 
Our citizens must know that they will receive the same treatment from authorities and enjoy the same rights under the law , whichever country they are in and wherever they are exercising their democratic rights . 
Mr President , I wish to talk specifically about the Council statement which we are expecting on cooperation between the EU and the USA and cooperation in combating terrorism . 
The events of 11 September were an excruciating flash of light and we had to react immediately . 
However , we must not be blinded into forgetting that terrorism has been a problem on our continent for many years . 
I welcome the Justice and Home Affairs Council 's agreement at the weekend on a framework decision on combating terrorism . 
I welcome the Council 's recognition of a European Union legal base for the freezing of assets of groups linked to terrorism and , in particular , yesterday 's agreement between Council President Guy Verhofstadt and Prime Minister Berlusconi on a European arrest warrant . 
In tackling terrorism there is a fine balance to be struck between the security needs of our citizens and the rights and freedoms which make democracy what it is . 
The European Union has shown that it can be tough on terrorism and still be true to its treaties and to the values which underpin them . 
It has recognised that networks of terrorism stretch beyond its borders and that we need cooperation between democracies , particularly across the Atlantic . 
The next step must be an agreement on better cooperation with the United States . 
Articles 24 and 28 of the TEU allow us to build a cooperation agreement on police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters with our friends in North America . 
We note that there is a famous exchange of letters between Mr Bush and Mr Verhofstadt - some 40 US proposals on what we could be doing to improve our capacity to fight against terrorism . 
Most of these can be and I believe are being complied with . 
On a visit to Washington DC last week , in talks with senators , congressmen and members of the Administration , I was concerned to learn that the US Patriot Act , adopted by the United States to fight terrorism , appears to discriminate against non-US citizens . 
We will need to explore with our American friends quite how it affects those from the European Union . 
I was struck too at the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing of Attorney General John Ashcroft by the way in which the proposal for military tribunals - the executive order from the President - would provide for hearings in secret , for a prosecution being able to withhold evidence from the defence , for defendants not necessarily having the right to an independent lawyer or to a private conversation with their lawyer , and by how a sentence - including a death sentence - can be passed by a majority of two-thirds of the jurors . 
Even if we were able to get an agreement on an extradition package in which the US would not apply the death penalty , the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights , to which all of our Member States are signatories and on which the Union is founded , would prevent extradition of suspects to appear before such military tribunals . 
Here , in Europe , we have developed a rights-based approach to international law . 
We would like a permanent international criminal court to try those guilty of crimes against humanity and we have called on the Americans to join us in that . 
We recognise that democracies need to work together in the fight against terrorism and other forms of serious cross-border crime . 
My fear is that , if the US goes down the path of military tribunals , we are on divergent paths . 
We must make that clear to Mr Ashcroft on his visit to Europe later this week . 
Mr President , this debate has been quite unsatisfactory and , under the pertinent rule in our Rules of Procedure , I wish to propose to my committee and to the House that we have a resolution to close this debate , to vote on it at our January part-session , and to look at what further action we need to take , given the quite unsatisfactory nature of the responses from the Council and Commission . 
I hope you will pass this message to your Prime Minister and try to ensure , when the Council meets next week , that it really does address itself to the issue of democracy in Europe . 
If people in the regions and localities of Europe feel that their democracy means nothing , because all decisions are taken in remote places ; if they are always merely told ` look to the constitution of your Member State if you are not happy with things ' , that will damage democracy in Europe , not help it . 
I therefore ask you most sincerely to try to ensure that the type of issue which my colleagues and I have been putting to you this evening is really thought about at Laeken . 
When Mr Mugabe became the first President of Zimbabwe some 40 years ago , that land-locked country in Africa was a rich nation that could feed its population and export food to neighbouring countries . 
About 1000 white farmers , owning most of the land , produced the food and the surplus . 
After independence in Zimbabwe , the Lancaster House Agreement between Britain , as the colonial power , and Zimbabwe allowed for land redistribution to black families and appropriate compensation to white farmers without any loss of production . 
Since independence , Mugabe has had much time to establish real democracy , rule of law and prosperity for all . 
Instead , he has enriched himself , his friends and destroyed his country 's economy . 
Zimbabwe needs a free and fair election now . 
Mugabe should not fear . 
He will be judged on his record . 
If he is a statesman , like Mandela , then he should step down with dignity and let someone else from Zanu-PF contest the election . 
If he is still a Catholic , then he should listen to Archbishop Ncube of Zimbabwe who has also condemned him regularly without fear . 
Mr Mugabe can not and will not be remembered in Africa unless he gives his countrymen a chance to breathe , walk without fear and seek opportunities to enhance their quality of life . 
I have a simple message for Mr Mugabe - be an African elder and retire gracefully to your village . 
Mr President , the Democratic Republic of Congo is neither democratic nor a republic . 
It is a country with fertile land , vast mineral wealth , populated by people who are poor , sick and starving . 
These people have been plundered by cruel and corrupt dictators who continue to enrich themselves . 
Soldiers from neighbouring countries such as Rwanda and Congo continue to loot , rape and kill civilians at random . 
Villages and towns are destroyed . 
Over 2 million people have been killed and 1 million people live in fear in refugee camps . 
The UN passed resolution 1376 on 7 November 2001 . 
It advocates disarmament and demobilisation , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration of armed groups . 
These measures are essential . 
How are they going to be implemented ? 
Who will lead this action ? 
The EU , the USA or the UN ? 
Or will this be yet another UN resolution for filing in some dusty cabinet . 
Last month I attended in Ghana a conference of African politicians . 
I could not answer . 
I could not answer that either . 
Let us make sure that we take action before poor people become so desperate . 
Mr President , Mr Verhofstadt spoke a lot about the need to improve democratic control . 
We were asked to approve a regulation to freeze the assets of a list of terrorist organisations ; the list was not attached . 
The regulation referred to two Council texts , neither of which is available to Parliament . 
We voted on amendments covering the absent documents in view of the urgency , but if that text is not amended and , in view of this practice , Parliament really should consider recourse to the European Court of Justice unless Council is prepared to treat us in a fairer and more adult way . 
Mr President , colleagues , I make no apology for beginning my contribution by thanking the outgoing President , Mrs Fontaine , for the work that she did as President . 
Before a vote is even cast in this election , we already know the winner . 
The 1999 European elections , Eurobarometer and other opinion polls all demonstrate that this institution has an image problem . 
With the Convention , enlargement and the 2004 European elections , we face enormous challenges . 
Every Member of this Parliament now has the opportunity , in a secret ballot , to vote for the person they believe can best guide us through this vital phase . 
In that time I proved my determination to work for Parliament and for all its Members . 
As rapporteur on the Maastricht and Amsterdam Treaties , I negotiated with heads of government to secure codecision for this Parliament . 
As one of Parliament 's representatives on COSAC , I worked to convince national parliaments of the importance of the convention method for the next reform of the Treaties . 
As Vice-President of Parliament I have sought to modernise and improve our working methods . 
I am deeply conscious of the fact that everything I have achieved in this Parliament has been achieved through working with colleagues across the political spectrum . 
I have fought for what I believe to be right , and I have done that , sometimes , against the interests of my own political group and sometimes even against the interests of my own country . 
We all know that the European Union faces many sensitive issues in the coming months and years . 
My task as President would be to ensure that at this vital time Parliament 's voice is not only heard but acted upon on these issues . 
This plenary is Parliament 's shop window to the world . 
It should be the place where the outside world can identify the real points of controversy between ourselves , and between ourselves , the Commission and the Council . 
Yet , frankly , because we deal with so many items - about 35 every four-day part-session - and because of the structure of our debates and the amount of time we spend voting , the relevance of what we do in this Chamber is sometimes obscured to the outside world . 
We need , as a Parliament , to resolve more issues in committee and reform both the structure of our debates and the way we vote . 
We need to provide our committees and rapporteurs with the necessary technical and legal resources to allow us to become a genuine equal to the Council as a co-legislator . 
In short , I want this Parliament to become a real debating Chamber - a Parliament where the general public can hear lively debates over real political choices and one where every Member feels that they have the opportunity to participate . 
I strongly believe that Members of this Parliament do an excellent job carrying out our legislative , budgetary and control functions . 
But no parliament can work in the dark . 
It is vital that we reconnect with the citizens so that we really can live up to our claim to be the voice of the people in EU decision-making . 
Thirty months is a short time . 
Reform will only be possible if the President has the support of all Members across the whole House . 
We need a President for all of Parliament . 
My record in this House , I hope you will agree , demonstrates that I would be an inclusive President . 
I have already committed myself to having a cabinet that would be balanced in terms of gender , nationality and political party . 
I would want a team of all the talents from right or left , big group or small group , medium-size or no group . 
If elected I pledge to be a President for the whole Parliament and all its Members . 
If you elect me today I would see this as the pinnacle of my political career . 
All my energy , all my commitment and all my enthusiasm would be channelled into ensuring that this is a Parliament of which we can be proud . 
The House will be aware that last week in Nigeria a young woman was condemned to death for adultery . 
She was to be stoned to death , having been buried in the ground . 
After a letter from Mrs Fontaine , a number of Members of this House and from myself , as ACP Co-President , that death sentence was not carried out , and an appeal can be made within two months . 
However , I am appalled to tell you that a further case has now arisen ; an 18-year-old is to be taken to court on Monday for the same offence of adultery and will be condemned to death , again by stoning . 
I sincerely hope that this House , and every Member in it , will support you in writing to Nigeria in the hope that such sentences will be stopped in the future , so that this barbaric method of killing someone under Sharia law is taken up with the Nigerian Government and the latter urged to ensure that it never happens again . 
Mr President , I would firstly like to thank the rapporteur for the enormous amount of work he has put into this document and for the information that is in it . 
However , I am disappointed that he is so pessimistic , both looking back to the past and forward to the future . 
Of course I support some of his criticisms : too much paperwork , a lack of decision-making , slow delivery times and a lack of capacity in developing countries . 
This has given rise to frustration , but Commissioner Nielson is tackling these problems with some vigour . 
I am much more optimistic than the rapporteur . 
I believe the Cotonou Accord is the right path . 
The new Partnership Agreement is based on the right principles , enhancing the old Lomé Convention . 
There is much discussion on project finance versus budget support . 
Should we be using multilateral aid or bilateral aid ? 
I strongly support multilateral aid backed up by bilateral aid where it can complement a project . 
I do not believe that project aid has failed . 
The problem has been the under-capacity of countries to continue projects once they were completed by the European Union . 
I am equally not yet convinced that budget support can be controlled tightly enough in many developing countries and fear that it will open the door to corruption . 
I believe it is the new factors in the Cotonou Accord that will have the most influence : the political dimension , the emphasis on good governance , conflict prevention and resolution , the interaction with civil society , the regional approach to strengthen trade and the Parliamentary element of the Joint Assembly . 
All these are elements that should strengthen the partnership . 
All this has changed my role as co-president in the last year . 
I certainly have played a more political role in the past year , discussing , for instance , conflict resolution and good governance with President Taylor in Liberia , or having discussions on the Zimbabwe situation with the Presidents of Botswana , Malawi and Mozambique , and hearing and seeing the effects on their countries . 
All this depends on an effective Commission , with properly funded and staffed delegations . 
Most of the ones I have seen are extremely badly serviced at the moment for lack of funds and the petty paperwork they have to handle . 
This partnership has to work . 
If we really wish to see an end to economic migration and terrorism in the world , we must provide a standard of living in developing countries which persuades people to stay and work there . 
Mr President , I should like to take up a point Mrs McKenna raised yesterday concerning electronic voting and the secret ballot . 
When a secret ballot is important , Members should be protected from peer-group pressure . 
I would therefore like you to refer to the Bureau the question of whether the electronic voting system can be improved in order to really function as a secret ballot and protect Members from those pressures from which they ought to be protected . 
Mr President , the review of the common fisheries policy gives us a chance to guide the future of fisheries in the European Union over the next ten years and we have to get this right . 
Reform is essential . 
A lot has to be done in a very short time , but there is too much at stake for it to fail . 
I hope that this time next year , when we return for the first part-session in 2003 , we will see a newly reformed CFP fit for the future . 
Mr President , this Green Paper comes at a time when the EU is confronted with dwindling stocks , over-capacity and ineffective and over-centralised management . 
The review is an opportunity not only rectify shortcomings but also to preserve crucial provisions which are worthwhile and necessary for the survival of Europe 's fragile fisheries-dependent communities . 
The common goal of conserving stocks for future generations remains the most important objective of the CFP . 
It is imperative that the promotion of sustainable fisheries and the needs of fisheries-dependent communities are kept to the fore . 
The report paves the way for decentralisation and the Commission must set out a comprehensive form of zonal management , delivered through zonal management committees . 
Mr President , my one-minute allocation in the previous debate did not give me enough time to congratulate the rapporteur , Mrs Miguélez Ramos , for the work she did and the manner in which she did that work . 
But we do . 
This report emphasises , therefore , a number of key concerns : there should be no broad-brush approach ; there must be accurate scientific advice , the impact of industrial fisheries must be recognised ; there must be adequate funding ; and accessible diversification programmes should be available . 
The Commission itself admits that it has not relied solely on scientific advice and that there is a general lack of scientific advice for assessing long-term recovery plans . 
This should also help to instil confidence in technical measures . 
The Commission states that with regard to the North Sea closures of last spring it was aware that the effort displaced from the area closed to protect cod would create increased pressure on other stocks . 
The Commission does not , however , address the extent to which this impact could have proven disastrous , had it not been for the responsible action of Scottish fishermen , for example , who voluntarily tied up at their own cost . 
I put it to the Commission that the issue of displaced fishing effort was not properly thought through and that potential displacement must be properly assessed in future closures , with the benefits of closure balanced against the detrimental knock-on effects . 
In welcoming the commitment to tie-up schemes by the Commission , I note that it is not only encouraging compensated tie-up , but also removing the current ceilings on financial contributions . 
I strongly urge Members to support both the amendments in the vote today . 
The first asks the Commission not to neglect the specific needs of mixed fisheries , whilst the second calls for measures to encourage environmentally-friendly and smaller-scale fisheries . 
Finally , I also call for the deletion of paragraph 7 , which not only is an open attack on small-scale fisheries , but also a ringing endorsement of the promotion of large-scale industrial fisheries which , I contend , is unacceptable . 
In conclusion , we have to strike a balance here between the need to advance the recovery of stocks and the need to avoid disproportionate restrictions on the many different fisheries affected and the resultant negative consequences for those whose livelihood depends on the sea . 
I hope that this afternoon Members will support this report and its amendments . 
Mr President , I would like to thank the House for having this debate during a prime morning session - normally our debates are at midnight ! 
Thus some form of action must be taken as a matter of urgency . 
Firstly , there is the proposal that fishing effort should be reduced by up to 40 to 50 % . 
However , there are other factors at play . 
In conclusion , all stakeholders , the European institutions , Member State governments and the fishing industry must be involved if any of these measures are to be successful . 
An effective stock recovery programme is essential for the future of cod fisheries in Scotland and the UK . 
They have also invested a lot of money in getting dioxins out of oil , fish oils and fishmeal , which is a product of the sandeel fishery . 
We must support the Danish fishing sector in this case , and that is why I ask this House to support Mr Busk 's two amendments . 
However , there is hardly any other Parliament which would have voted that number of amendments to a report . 
The procedure does little to enhance democracy and it is an unedifying and indeed incomprehensible spectacle for citizens who are following our work . 
I urge you , in your term in office , to ensure a thorough reform of the decision-making procedures of this Assembly . 
Where the EPLP vote differs from the PSE line , the reasons for doing so are related to maintaining consistency with the UK government negotiating position on the future of the CFP . 
The EPLP vote differs from the PSE line on the following points : recital B , Amendments Nos 6 , 24 , 17 and 16 , paragraphs 20 , 12 , 26 ( original text ) , 45-47 , 60 , 64 , 67 , 68 , 72 , 73 , 82 , 84 and 91 , Amendment No 5 , paragraph 2 ( part 2 ) , Amendment No 3 , and paragraphs 119 and 120 . 
I would like to draw to the House 's attention the action of Levi Strauss , the jeans manufacturer , which is today closing two of its Scottish plants . 
650 Scots , mostly women , face the prospect tonight of losing their jobs and their livelihoods . 
Local politicians and trade unions are calling for meetings with the company . 
The lack of information and consultation by this company is quite a disgrace , showing more clearly the importance of proper information and consultation legislation prior to such a decision being announced . 
I would ask this House to show solidarity in supporting the workforce in Dundee and Bellshill and the families who have been affected by this decision today . 
I ask the President of Parliament to write to Levi Strauss to ask why it is shedding so many European jobs and why it has not properly consulted its workforce . 
Mutual recognition of financial penalties 
Mr President , on a point of order : it will hardly surprise the House if , on behalf of my Group , I support the position you have taken . 
But I would nonetheless urge you in your intervention at the European Council in Barcelona to make the point very strongly that we as a House are not happy with the procedure that has been taken and that we hope in the future to see a much more constructive and collaborative approach to us from the other institutions . 
I am sure everyone in this House would wish them to know our feelings . 
Mr President , I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his excellent report on linking relief , rehabilitation and development . 
It is an enormously important subject , fraught with problems . 
There is no doubt at all that there is an increase in disasters worldwide , both man-made , as in Afghanistan , and natural , such as in Goma , DRC . 
It needs the full cooperation of all parties to have most effect : the donors , the beneficiaries , implementing parties like governments and NGOs , and bilateral aid . 
So getting aid to those most in need is absolutely vital and that requires local knowledge and the right kind of aid . 
Two weeks ago ECHO informed the Committee on Development and Cooperation that the situation in Goma was totally under control and that everything that was required was there . 
That very night we heard NGOs stating on the television that 90,000 were starving and that babies were already dying . 
Is this opportunism , accurate evidence or over-reacting ? 
It is almost impossible to plan for natural disasters . 
It is better to have a centralised European depot that can react quickly in an appropriate way . 
Linkage is all about cooperation and one body being responsible for decisions . 
Mr President , once again it was quite impossible to hear the Commissioner 's winding-up speech . 
It is totally unfair to our Commissioners who come here to address us after they have listened to our speeches . 
I wonder whether , at the start of this two-and-a-half years of your presidency , you might consider a five-minute break between the end of business and Members coming into this Chamber , because we can not continue in this way , showing this discourtesy to our Commissioners . 
I do believe that regulations of this nature must balance the acknowledged benefits against the practical realities faced by transport operators , especially in rural and island areas where no viable alternative to road transportation exists . 
The concession on limitation to night working is important to Scotland , where long road distances are unavoidable and where transport operators already suffer such disincentives as high fuel taxation and relatively poor road networks in many areas . 
A long established multi-national company - Levi-Strauss - recently gave advance notice of redundancy in relation to workers at two factories in Scotland , at Bellshill and Dundee . 
The news media were informed first , and the announcement was accompanied by a statement explaining that the company had unilaterally considered and rejected any possible alternative to closure . 
This type of action is deplorable , not helped by the fact that the UK is seen as having the weakest legislation in this area . 
I therefore welcome and support moves towards a reasonable EU-wide standard for proper consultation with workers . 
High Representative , Commissioner , you have the dubious fortune to live in interesting times , as the Chinese might say . 
You may be the architects of the Union 's awakening in foreign policy . 
I welcome the meetings that Mr Sharon had last week with Palestinian leaders . 
I regret that it is the first time since he came to power that he has directly engaged with the Palestinians and I hope it is not mere coincidence that the talks come just before his trip to Washington DC . 
But it will not be enough to talk about a cease-fire . 
We need to be talking about an Israeli pullback and an end to the destruction of EUR 17 million worth of EU-funded Palestinian infrastructure . 
I recommend , High Representative , that if we want peace we do not define any starting date . 
Nonetheless , the news that some Israeli reservists are reportedly refusing to serve outside the 1967 frontiers is a welcome development . 
After all it was similar pressure from reservists that led to Israel 's withdrawal from Lebanon and , taken together with Arafat 's expression of willingness of the Palestinians to end the conflict and the need to find creative solutions , these green shoots of optimism need to be nurtured and encouraged to grow . 
High Representative , you spoke of the Mitchell report and light at the end of the tunnel . 
I hope this is not the headlamp of an oncoming train . 
Sometimes America 's friends - or so-called friends - in the Middle East have been about as helpful to the peace process as the so-called loyalists in Northern Ireland have proven loyal to the UK Government . 
The Union has a serious dilemma if it believes that US policy on the Middle East is damaging the entirety of Western interests . 
I wish you wisdom and courage in your discussions with our friends on the other side of the Atlantic . 
High Representative , you spoke also about Afghanistan . 
My group is concerned about reports of interfactional fighting in Northern and Eastern Afghanistan , leading to thousands of Pashtuns fleeing villages , reports of 50 or more people being killed in Gardez . 
Such reports are an ominous sign and strengthen the case for an international stabilisation force to prevent any possibility of a slide to civil war . 
Our priority would be to complete the elimination of terrorist networks but in this regard we believe that whatever questions there are over the status of combatants held by the US in Afghanistan and in Guantanamo Bay , they should be treated consistently with the 1949 Geneva Convention . 
That Convention was the fourth such to establish principles for the treatment of enemy soldiers and civilians in wartime . 
I hope that you will support my call for a United Nations committee to review it , to determine whether further changes are needed concerning armed insurgents and terrorists who do not fall within the traditional definitions and , if not , at least call on the Americans to sign the 1977 amendments to extend protection to guerrillas and combatants , amendments which the US has refused thus far to sign . 
In his state of the union address , President Bush displayed a shocking belligerence . 
Just as his environmental policies lead to global warming , so his diplomatic and military policies are pushing the world towards a new cold war . 
In this century every shot the US fires will indeed , in the words of the poet Emerson , `` ring round the world '' and unless you can appeal to , and nurture , a wider concept of American self-interest , then we risk the menace of a new military millennium . 
I wish to begin by congratulating you on the state-of-the-European-Parliament address , which perhaps , like other state-of-the-Union addresses , should become an annual event . 
I personally think you have made a very positive start as President of the European Parliament . 
If we are to carry out the reform agenda that you have discussed , then we need an esprit de corps in this House . 
The way in which you have engaged the Bureau of Parliament , the Conference of Presidents , the committee chairs in your agenda , already in your first month , shows a determination to work across the whole of this House in order to deliver reform , and that is very encouraging . 
But , at the same time , you have also done the same with the institutions . 
Although we should not overstate these things , there is already an improved relationship between the Commission and the Council and this institution - and , perhaps most importantly - you have shown a willingness to take tough decisions . 
That is something which , I am afraid , will become more and more a feature of your presidency , but we will have more and more occasion to take hard decisions . 
If I have any criticism of your speech , it was not in terms of the content - there was hardly a word I disagreed with - but that I perhaps detected an element of `` mission creep '' in your speech . 
If you try to do everything , you may end up not succeeding in doing very much . 
I would encourage you to stick to just two or three key items : enlargement being the vital one ; the internal reform of this House being the second ; and also , as others have said , the communication strategy of this House to connect better with the citizens of the European Union . 
If you achieve progress in these three areas , you will have achieved very much indeed . 
Your speech also correctly got to the dilemma that we face . 
If we are to improve our standing as an institution , then we have to reform internally . 
That means a little navel-gazing . 
However , if we spend two-and-a-half years navel-gazing , then we will be even further away from the citizens out there . 
So we have to combine the two . 
We have to conduct reform within the structures of this House while on the floor of this House , as you rightly say , connecting with the citizens by discussing the major items that face them in their daily lives - to actually talk about the issues that matter out there , not the issues that matter in here . 
It is out there that really matters to us . 
Mr Dell ` Alba made a point I had wanted to make . 
When you talked about inviting the members of the applicant countries ' parliaments to be present at the enlargement debate here , I agreed with you , but my immediate reaction was to wonder where were they going to sit . 
Then I looked around the Chamber and realised that there would be no problem in finding seats for them in this House . 
There we have a double dilemma : one that you have identified , which is to make our debates more lively and interesting ; but another one , which we have tried in the past to solve and need to try again : to make this plenary the focus of our four days ' work in Strasbourg . 
In fact , for most Members it is a side-show when they come to Strasbourg ; the average Member spends less than five hours in this Chamber during a Strasbourg week . 
It should be where they are most of the time ; it should be the focus of our activity ; you should feel that if you have not been present at the plenary , you have missed out on something . 
Instead , sometimes you feel that when you have been in the plenary you have missed out on something that has been going on elsewhere . 
So we have to refocus to make this the centre of activity : a livelier Chamber where we really discuss the day-to-day issues . 
One last but important point , because both you , Mr President , and Mr Poettering in different ways referred to it . 
I welcome the decision on the von Wogau report - it was a right decision . 
It was a short two - or three-month solution to a very important point in terms of the powers of Parliament . 
Thank you very much and , again , congratulations on the progress you have made so far . 
Mr President , my report is a draft response by this Parliament to two legislative acts : a proposed Council framework directive on combating terrorism and a proposed Council framework directive on the European arrest warrant and surrender procedures between Member States . 
Together with the creation of the European judicial authority , Eurojust , these two measures form the legislative basis of the European Union 's response to the menace of terrorism . 
The European Union may allow itself a few moments of satisfaction . 
These measures represent a major step forward towards the creation of a European judicial space . 
I would like to thank the President-in-Office for reminding us that this judicial space did not start on 11 September last year , although it would be churlish not to recognise that the attacks on New York and Washington on 11 September gave a political momentum which allowed us to knock heads together and overcome certain objections . 
Many of us regret that such a stimulus was needed . 
Nonetheless we welcome the progress it has brought . 
What do these measures do ? 
The European arrest warrant applies to a wider range of offences than previous extradition agreements . 
It makes surrender a judicial , rather than a political process . 
It largely abolishes the dual incrimination principle . 
It sets a time limit of 90 days for extradition , giving us the chance to judge all suspects of an offence at the same time . 
Currently it has been an offence in only six . 
It defines for the first time in international law a terrorist act and the offences which constitute a terrorist act . 
It seeks to approximate laws with common minimum penalties . 
I commend these measures to the House . 
These two measures constitute such a serious response . 
I regret - and we have in previous debates here regretted - the absence of proper democratic oversight and control of the Union 's procedures of law-making in this area . 
This House argued for the invocation of Article 42 of the Treaty , allowing these measures to be brought within the first pillar . 
Nonetheless , we recognise that the process of debate has brought improvements , that our amendments at the first reading have introduced certain safeguards into these measures . 
I welcome the words from the President-in-Office of the Council about closer involvement of Parliament in the process of passing such legislation . 
Other measures , such as the freezing of assets , have been far less coordinated . 
Indeed , it is not unfair to say , from reports of Coreper meetings , that the European Union has been all at sea in its approach to freezing of assets and other decisions . 
The motion for a resolution on the table today reflects that . 
We know since the end of the 1990s that three phenomena - terrorism , internationally organised crime and corruption - are increasingly linked . 
What academics have called the terrorist criminal nexus is well established . 
The fight against the terrorist criminal infrastructure must be our top priority . 
We know , too , that internationally organised crime is by far the biggest factor , economically and probably politically , in this terrorist criminal nexus . 
It is not enough just to freeze assets of terrorist groups . 
We must fight the economic dimension of terrorism if we are to get on top of the problem . 
The United Nations has started to do this through its financial action task force . 
The recommendations from the Washington meeting of 30 October to be implemented by June of this year are essential and provide an area where we can work together with the United States of America in combating this threat . 
But here I would appeal for the European Union to take the initiative : to take the initiative on ways forward , to try to bring the Americans back into the international community in this fight against terrorism , and to do so within a proper legal framework , with proper democratic and parliamentary control . 
A number of amendments have been submitted to my report . 
Amendments Nos 1 and 5 are identical and they cause me no problem . 
Amendment No 2 which comes subsequent to our adoption of the report in committee seems to be slightly out of context and I recommend a vote against . 
Amendment No 4 calls for the establishment of a European habeas corpus act . 
My group will support this , as we did in committee , although we consider the reintroduction of the amendment to be rather like adding too much monosodium glutamate to the cooking . 
But Amendment No 3 is the crux of the debate : the movers say that the European Union should not proceed without the guarantee of adequate standards in procedural law . 
That means that the Union can not respond to the terrorist threat . 
I disagree with them . 
But , in giving our agreement , we do so on the basis of faith that these measures will be rebalanced with procedural guarantees . 
This matter is very poignant to me personally . 
Faith is not a comfortable basis on which to proceed in politics . 
I am aware that my name , and perhaps the name of my party , may be associated with laws that could be used for repressive purposes . 
I appeal to the Council and Commission , in the spirit of the new relationship that we have between our institutions , to move rapidly to consolidate the necessary move forward in security with measures to promote freedom and justice on which the European Union will be judged . 
In commending these framework directives to the House , in recommending that we trust the other institutions , I say to them : you are on trial . 
The European Union is on trial before the court of world democratic opinion . 
Mr President , all of us in this House are agreed that it is a good thing to move towards the creation of a common European judicial space . 
We are also agreed , particularly in respect of the arrest warrant , that it makes the adoption of common and high minimum standards a matter of urgency . 
Mr Watson and Mrs Terrón i Cusí have asked us today to take it on trust that it will be done as a matter of urgency . 
We have to take some things on trust , but I would be reluctant to take all on trust . 
Furthermore , standards alone are never enough because standards can be broken . 
The only thing that guarantees high standards being observed is effective remedies . 
One of the most effective remedies ever devised was devised by the English common lawyers - I speak as a Scotsman - in the way of making sure that those who are wrongly detained are brought to court and released if the jailer can not show cause for keeping them there . 
That is a really effective remedy . 
In adopting the European arrest warrant each of our states makes its own judiciary the instrument of justice in another state . 
That is a good thing , that we help each other . 
But it should also be the case that if the powers of one country 's courts are abused by misconduct of prosecutors in another country , they can be recalled with an effective remedy . 
An effective remedy must be a Europe-wide remedy and one that diminishes the risk of undue detention pre-trial like the old 110-day rule which we celebrate in my country . 
Let us have Amendment No 4 and make sure that we have remedies that are effective as well as standards that are high . 
Mr President , when we are reflecting on the problems of improving procedures in the House it is worth noticing that an explanation of vote of this kind is one way one can reply to a point taken by the Commissioner at the end of a debate . 
Since Parliament in its wisdom ( or unwisdom ) chose not to adopt it , I voted against the Watson report on the Arrest Warrant . 
Other Members from the United Kingdom will come to regret that they did not too . 
Some of my colleagues in the European Free Alliance - a majority of them - voted for the Watson report ; not that they did not also regret the absence of the habeas corpus amendment , but that they felt a strong commitment in conscience , as we all do , to getting the European judicial space going forward , and thought that necessary . 
It seems to me that the 30-month threshold is justifiable , and forecast to succeed in rendering the UK BSE-free within a reasonable timescale . 
The main lesson to learn from BSE and other recent food scares surely is that we must favour a return to natural methods of food production and feeding of livestock . 
In Scotland for example , the majority of livestock has historically been grass-fed , resulting in a relatively low incidence of BSE in that country . 
Mr President , I should like to say , as draftsperson of an opinion , what a very great pleasure it has been to work alongside such a distinguished parliamentarian as Mr Napolitano , the author of this excellent report . 
There are few differences between the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and his report . 
In particular we want to endorse firmly the point in his conclusion that the so-called second chamber of the European legislature would be an unworkable third chamber and we are very glad that the suggestion has been so carefully refuted from inside one of the countries from which it emerged , namely the United Kingdom . 
On the report itself , the recommendations of the Committee on Legal Affairs were largely adopted by the rapporteur in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs . 
Our paragraph 1 , dealing with collaboration among the parliaments of the Union , is well covered in his paragraph 10 ; our paragraph 2 , on the importance of participation of representatives of the European Parliament and national parliaments in the future Convention , has been adopted by Mr Napolitano . 
This is very important because it speaks of the need for vigorous debate in the Convention to see whether we can produce a consensus . 
Some rumours emanating from the direction of Mr Giscard d'Estaing suggest that his idea is that there need not be a debate because all will be clear from the presidency . 
If that is so , we must disabuse him of that notion . 
This has to be a Convention that will debate . 
In paragraph 4 , that reappears as paragraph 12 in the Napolitano report . 
Finally , the one point of difference between the Committee on Legal Affairs and Mr Napolitano was whether there ought to be articulate and express mention of the role of regional parliaments with legislative power in this report . 
I think strongly there ought to be . 
The Committee on Legal Affairs voted for it clearly and my own group has tabled some amendments . 
Mr Napolitano said to me privately that he thinks this could be taken up on a different occasion through the Committee on Constitutional Affairs . 
If he were able to make an assurance to that effect tomorrow , it might be possible for us to reconsider things . 
I shall speak to him privately about that . 
It would be good if we could go forward with maximum agreement . 
I ask , in the mean time , that Parliament concentrate on this paragraph 3 and the parallel amendments tabled by myself and colleagues . 
President-in-Office , I represent one of Europe 's most ancient and longest surviving kingdoms - Scotland - which is a largely autonomous part of the United Kingdom , to which it belongs . 
Indeed , Scottish ministers sometimes attend and even represent the United Kingdom at Council meetings . 
However , my question refers to the Convention which is being set up to look at the future of Europe , at which no Scottish minister or Member of the Scottish Parliament will be present . 
Do you feel that it would be appropriate for regional assemblies , parliaments and governments to be represented at this very important Convention that is going to decide the future shape of the Europe , of which Scotland and your regions in Spain are very much a part ? 
Mr President , on a point of order : Mr Purvis has covered much of what I was going to say . 
It is interesting to hear the points of view of Mr Purvis and other colleagues on the issue of Scotland 's representation on this Constitutional Convention when the Conservative Party and the Nationalist Party could not even get it together to be part of the Scottish Constitutional Convention which set up and made room for the Scottish Parliament . 
I would like to ask the Minister whether there is a list available to the public and to colleagues here , showing how regional governments are represented in the various Council meetings . 
Mr Purvis touched upon the fact that Scottish ministers attend Council meetings in accordance with their areas of expertise and the areas they are involved with . 
I wondered how other regional governments work in this connection and whether such a list would be available to colleagues . 
Mr President , the Musotto report is a good report . 
The overall thrust is quite correct . 
The purpose of Cohesion Funds is to counteract the natural centrifugal forces of a large single economic and monetary unit , which is what the European Union and the euro zone are , by helping the less advantaged regions come up to the level of the more prosperous ones . 
This is the point : if the less advantaged remain less advantaged , the Cohesion Funds will have failed in their purpose . 
But that is why , contrary to what Mr Mussotto and the Committee on Regional Policy demand , we should stick to the 75 % of average Community GNP as a graduation point . 
Having reached that level the pump will have been adequately primed and the graduating region , with a suitable transitional process , should be well able to continue up the escalator to 100 % and higher . 
Surely it is only reasonable that at that point these Cohesion Fund resources should be reallocated to those regions which lie further behind . 
That is why I will vote against recitals O and R of Mr Musotto 's report . 
There must also be financial discipline . 
An open-ended honey pot is not conducive to encouraging self-help and self-reliance . 
This is why I can not countenance leaving open-ended the possibility of an even higher percentage of European Union GDP being committed to cohesion policies . 
0.45 % should be quite adequate and will make us hone our priorities and procedures , even in the context of enlargement . 
So the second half of paragraph 57 , or any compromise of similar effect which leaves the amount be made available open-ended , is not acceptable . 
Given these small but significant changes I will be very pleased to support Mr Musotto 's report as an important contribution to the future well-being of all parts of our European Union . 
Mr President , I would like to inform the House that at the end of the debate yesterday afternoon , Mr Napolitano , in response to statements made during the debate by myself and others , made the following offer : he suggested that we ought to withdraw Amendments Nos 18 and 12 in order that he might , through the Committee on Constitutional Affairs , propose the bringing forward of a specific report on the issue of constitutional regions in the architecture of Europe . 
Many of us believe that is a very important question . 
Those who think it is important are divided at the moment between those who would wish to include it in this report and those who would wish to deal with it in another context . 
The best course - and my group agrees with this as I believe the Liberals do as well - will be for us to accept Mr Napolitano 's generous proposition that this should be raised as a separate topic in its own right through the Constitutional Affairs Committee and that we should withdraw these amendments . 
I therefore propose that be done . 
Mr President , I am content with that , but they are on different points . 
The other two amendments make this observation : there are exactly 15 Member States in the Union at the moment and that is not disputed . 
Whether there are more nations is a different question . 
However , in a spirit of goodwill I withdraw these amendments as well . 
Mr President , as Vice-President of Parliament responsible for relations with national parliaments , I very much welcome both the tone and the content of Mr Napolitano 's report . 
I am convinced that his ideas will help us enhance what is already a good relationship between ourselves and our national counterparts . 
I strongly believe that this relationship is vital if we are to ensure that the EU is built on democratic foundations . 
However , I agree with some of my colleagues when they emphasise that the regional parliaments which have legislative powers are an equally important part of ensuring democracy in all EU decision-making . 
To take my own country , for example , over half the work of the Scottish Parliament is not about implementing laws thought of in Edinburgh or even implementing laws coming from London , but in fact about implementing laws from Brussels - about ensuring that EU laws are properly transposed into Scottish legislation . 
So while it is important that we look at national parliaments - and I continue to welcome the emphasis we give to that - we should also now consider how we might embrace the regional parliaments in our work . 
The preservation of historical fisheries interests is inextricably linked to economic and social cohesion in fisheries-dependent communities . 
Under the principle of relative stability , the proportions of stocks allotted to given states in given fisheries remain constant . 
When catch opportunities increase or decline in a given fishery , all states with legally recognised stakes in that fishery derive a proportional share of the spoils . 
Relative stability is fundamental to fisheries policy and the maintenance of fish stocks , and should not be undermined . 
Moreover , the importance of the Hague preferences must also be stressed . 
The Hague preferences recognise the extent to which many coastal communities are fisheries-dependent and offer additional protection . 
The socio-economic role of these arrangements can not be exaggerated - they must be maintained as not only fundamental to the Common Fisheries Policy but also integral to the basic objectives of cohesion policy . 
Finally the importance of FIFG funding must be emphasised when it comes to fisheries-dependent communities , and in particular with regard to fleet renewal for safety reasons for a sector that operates in a clearly hostile environment . 
Mr President , this report creates a depressing picture of the situation of women in some Mediterranean countries . 
It demonstrates that they are disadvantaged economically , that they are disadvantaged in terms of health and , perhaps most significantly , in terms of education , with the levels of literacy among women in some Mediterranean countries way below that of men . 
It is important that Parliament draws attention to that issue , but that is not sufficient . 
We should also ensure that EU policies are designed to help women improve their standing in some of those countries . 
For example , the MEDA programme so far has no lines particularly dedicated to the education of women , to improving the health care of women . 
We should look at that . 
We should also look at the way our economic relations with some of the Mediterranean countries operate and see if they could be used to enhance the status of women , for example , by supporting women 's cooperatives and other activities . 
Mr President , I follow Mrs Attwooll as one of the other Members for Scotland in this House . 
We have been told in recent weeks that the carrier out of that port , EWS , will not be able to afford to continue providing a service out of Scotland at the current available number of trains per day . 
It would be a crisis for Scotland , and therefore a crisis for transport across the Union , if that happened . 
It is well known , for example , that the Scotch whisky industry depends heavily on rail freight to get malt scotch and blended scotch into the European market . 
Heavy losses are being made on a vitally important trade . 
This is a time when people throughout the European Union people are asking themselves the question : Do we obtain the benefits which we are promised from our membership of the European Union ? 
These benefits particularly relate to the opportunity to trade freely across the Union . 
Other benefits which have been promised are those arising from intermodal transport - that not everything should go on the roads . 
That affects not just people in Scotland ; it even more affects people down the motorway routes through England , if far too much heavy freight traffic goes down there . 
I am grateful to colleagues who have raised this question . 
I am grateful to the Commission for taking it seriously ; but I want to know as well what compensation will be available to ensure that those who have lost money are not prevented from trading altogether by the uneconomic conditions now prevailing on this route . 
Mr President , I join my Scottish colleagues in asking the Commissioner to help us to resolve this situation as urgently as possible . 
Because of the reduction in transit through the Tunnel , we do not have a mere three services a night - we have none , because the service from Scotland to the continent has been withdrawn completely . 
As Mr MacCormick said , it is no longer possible to transport Scotch whisky to the Continent or to send our microcircuits to Paris , Frankfurt or Milan . 
But more than that : it is no longer possible for us to import parts and continental products by train . 
Costs for both exports and imports are increasing , as are road congestion and pollution . 
A service which did something to bring Scotland closer to the golden triangle of Europe has been lost , and so Scotland returns to the periphery . 
Because we seem incapable of organising our immigration systems on a European basis and of providing adequate security to ensure that any such arrangement works . 
Clearly there are faults on the French side of La Manche and on the English side of the English Channel , but the victims are my constituents - hundreds of miles from Dover and Calais - in Scotland . 
I call upon the UK government to resolve its immigration system , in collaboration with its neighbours , so that it does not attract tens of thousands of desperate people . 
It is surely not coincidental that the UK is one of the only European countries without identity cards . 
I call upon the French authorities , from their old allies of the Auld Alliance , their Scottish cousins , to enforce real security at their end of the Tunnel so that the rail freight service to and from Scotland can be resumed . 
I call upon the Commissioner and the Commission to knock all their heads together urgently in order to reach a solution to this absurd state of affairs . 
There is a charge against Mr Pasqua , but not against Mr Marchiani , which concerns illegal funding of an election campaign through acceptance of donations and funding of the European election campaign in breach of the provisions of Article L52 .8 of the Electoral Code . 
These being the charges , the first charge concerning illegal arms trading , etc. , against both Mr Pasqua and Mr Marchiani , the second against Mr Pasqua only , the examining magistrates are requesting the waiver of parliamentary immunity of these two gentlemen , so that certain judicial supervision measures may be taken against them . 
The Members would be forbidden to enter into contact with certain witnesses , or co-accused , or to visit certain countries and they may be required to put up bail . 
This notification order was forwarded first to the public prosecutor of the Republic at the level of the Court of First Instance , then through the public prosecutor at the Paris Court of Appeal and then from that public prosecutor to the Minister of Justice and by the Minister of Justice to the Parliament here . 
It should be noted , at the First Instance , that the public prosecutor of the Republic firmly supports a request for judicial supervision by the examining magistrates , stressing the gravity and nature of the case and describing it as necessary in principle . 
The Minister of Justice , however , forwarded the request for waiver of immunity , together with the forwarding letters from the public prosecutor at First Instance and at the Court of Appeal , without attaching any further remarks . 
This is the situation in which we have to take a decision . 
I want to say , first of all , that the crimes of which these Members are charged are serious ones . 
They are serious crimes and of a kind that would not ordinarily attract parliamentary immunity because they do not relate to the ordinary and proper activities of a Member of this Parliament , or a politician operating in a democratic society . 
It does make it important that I should acknowledge that both Members strenuously affirm their innocence and denounce what they consider to have been abusive elements in the prosecution process . 
However , in the nature of the case , I can have no view and Parliament should take no view about these points . 
The present request for waiver of immunity , therefore , does not concern the issue whether these prosecutions may or should continue in accordance with French law . 
Under Article 10 of the Protocol of 1965 , there is no relevant immunity , either for a deputy of the French National Assembly or , therefore , for a French MEP in the face of prosecution on charges of this kind . 
The issue of immunity and the request for waiver relates only to the issue of whether the Court may issue binding orders restricting the MEPs ' freedom of movement , or their freedom in making contact with other persons . 
I would draw to the attention of all colleagues that if there are freedoms which are vitally important to the exercise of public representative office , especially in a Parliament of this kind , freedom to communicate with other citizens and the citizens of other countries , and freedom to move as one chooses , is critically important , as part of doing the job . 
In its present form , the request for waiver of immunity seems unacceptably precise and indeed the documents of the case seem to indicate that no attention has been paid to the recommendation for the request of waiver to be taken forward only on the basis of a more specific statement , concerning places and persons involved . 
Article 9 of the Protocol , as President Fontaine sharply reminded the prosecutor , makes us entirely free from any legal proceeding whatever in any expression of opinion of vote cast in performance of our duties as Members of this Parliament . 
In these circumstances , the Legal Affairs Committee , and I wholly endorsed its view , proposes that the request received from the French Minister of Justice for waiver of immunity ought to be rejected in the form in which it has been presented to the Parliament . 
I hope that decision , together with the explanatory statement , will be forwarded , if it is adopted by the Parliament . 
This may not be the end of this matter but , in the form we received it , this request for waiver of immunity was in the view of the Legal Affairs Committee unacceptable , and I commend that view to the House . 
Mr President-in-Office , this House will vote tomorrow on an amendment on your National Hydrological Plan , so we hope you enjoy your glass of water today . 
If the European Union were drawing up an end-of-year report card on the Lisbon process , I suspect that the report would say `` must try harder '' . 
But I am afraid this report card would also show that the Union is failing in too many areas . 
The Commission communication to the Barcelona European Council speaks of a firm commitment to the growth and stability pact , which will help build confidence . 
If this is so , it was sadly lacking when the Finance Ministers fudged an early warning decision on Germany and Portugal just recently . 
The rejection of the take-over bids directive is a major setback to competitiveness in the Union and I challenge the other political groups and the Council to join us in speeding through the new Commission proposal under a fast-track procedure , so that we can get it onto the statute book by the end of this year . 
Another area where the schoolteacher would rap the Council over the knuckles is the European patent . 
If we want to close the innovation gap between Europe and the United States , we need easier and cheaper and faster pan-European patent protection . 
When it comes to behaviour in class , I am not sure that the Union would score well . 
I welcome the Commission 's decision this afternoon to take the Council to the Court of Justice for an attempt to take away the Commission 's powers over state aid . 
Finally , our report card would show a pupil which is lacking ambition . 
If the European Union is to be a star pupil , we need progress on liberalisation of energy and gas markets , on implementation of the financial services action plan , on agreement of a public procurement framework . 
What message is it that we are sending to applicant states if we are incapable of implementing ourselves the demanding reforms that we are expecting of them ? 
Mr President , the Parliament 's committees on which I sit have in the last few days made important progress with legislation on both financial services and energy market liberalisation . 
It will be tragic if the European Council can not also match Europe 's urgent needs and their own rhetoric at Lisbon and bring this area of legislation to completion and soon . 
Beyond this , I stress the critical importance of research and development and innovation to the future of Europe . 
Mr Prodi highlighted this policy area and said quite rightly there is no reason why Europe should not lead the world in biotechnology , which is undoubtedly going to be the leading area of science and industry , of employment and improved quality of life for the next few decades . 
And yet , what do we have ? 
Bickering over the Community patent , moratoria and antagonisms , procedural obstacles which have forestalled all progress in genetically modified crops and a tremendous promise they offer to us in Europe and the developing world especially . 
What do we have ? 
Over-complex and expensive approval procedures and patenting processes for new products in healthcare and pharmaceuticals . 
We can not afford to lose our best scientists to our competitors where they are better appreciated , given scope to realise their ambitions and are suitably rewarded . 
We are already two years past Lisbon , there are only eight more years to 2010 when we are to be the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world . 
Action will speak louder than words , Mr President-in-Council , there is little or no time to lose . 
A week ago I was asked by a colleague who works as an advisor to the Scottish Parliament if there was anyway I could help her with the problem of foreseeing business coming forward in the European Parliament in order that committees of that other parliament should be aware of our work and able to plan in relation to it . 
I said that there was a marvellous publication and I would get it for her . 
My staff asked for it in Parliament this week and I asked the Parliament office in Edinburgh if they could provide it . 
I was informed that this is a rare work of which Members of Parliament get one copy each and which may not be copied for anyone else , and no further copies can be obtained . 
In these days of transparency in the conduct of our business , it seems to me that is a provision which ought to be re-examined . 
This very useful publication should be made widely available . 
A second point : Yesterday , we approved minutes which drew attention to Mrs Doyle 's statement of Thursday , 7 February , that in respect of the Watson report the PPE-ED Group by mistake failed to vote in favour of the habeas corpus amendment . 
Had they not made that mistake because of a late change in numbering , that amendment would have been carried in Parliament . 
This is a momentous fact which I hope will be drawn to the attention of Commissioner Vitorino , the President-in-Office of the Council and Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi as chair of the relevant committee of this House . 
Six months on from the tragic events of 11 September , now must be the time to reassert the need for effective global governance . 
While I welcome the Commissioner 's statement , I regret the fact that the Commission 's work has not been more balanced - recognising , for example , that there is a dark side to globalisation , too - and has not been more ambitious . 
Why did the Commission not take up Mr Verhofstadt 's suggestion that we should have a G8 not based on wealth and composed of the richest nations , but based on population and composed of the world 's major regional bodies , thereby involving the African Union , Mercosur , the South Asian Area of Regional Cooperation ( SAARC ) and so on ? 
Globalism has led to a world of interconnected communities . 
Technology and language learning have transformed our ability to communicate . 
Trade and investment have changed our economic perspectives and vastly increased our wealth . 
Travel has opened up new horizons and new opportunities for human contact . 
History , Mr President , suggests that if the world were truly a global village , many more would be shocked by the misery of the poor . 
Of 6 billion human beings , half are living on less than EUR 2 per day and 800 million are going to sleep hungry every night . 
I say , therefore , to our friends on the Right that yes , the market economy , if intelligently regulated , is the most powerful instrument known to mankind to lift people out of poverty . 
That we have not yet learned to use it properly , however , is shown by financial crises , by environmental degradation and by the continued spread of preventable disease . 
Moreover , our failure to reach 0.7 % of GDP in development aid is depriving the poor of EUR 100 billion per annum . 
I say to the Left that we need to reform our trade policies because aid and debt relief for developing countries without access to our markets can be nothing more than a palliative . 
We must not starve the developing world of the benefits of innovation . 
The challenge to humankind is to establish effective instruments of international government . 
We need from our current leaders vision and commitment such as that shown by the founders of the Union . 
It involves the self-confidence to engage with the world economic forum , the world social forum and others and the self-confidence to say to our friends in the United States that their legitimate sense of vulnerability after 11 September should not lead them in a unilateralist direction - whether in matters relating to military or economic security , the environment or fighting crime . 
Global problems require global solutions . 
Mr President , I want to raise a point of order on a very serious matter dealing with Scotch whisky . 
A year ago , this Parliament selected two whiskies to be put on sale to Members of Parliament , to visitors and to people visiting our shops in Brussels and Strasbourg with Parliament 's own label and own brand placed on the bottles . 
The College of Quaestors has agreed all of the conditions necessary for having these whiskies placed on sale in our shops , yet the Administration is still blocking their sale in our shops . 
I would ask you , Mr President , to intervene in this matter to ensure that the request of the College of Quaestors taken on behalf of the Members is carried out and that these branded whiskies are placed on sale in our shops . 
Mr President , our group can support the guidelines at this stage , but will make a judgement on the overall budget later in the year , depending on the outcome of various policy debates that are of key concern to us . 
Firstly , the EU must be able to welcome new member states in the best possible circumstances , meaning that they must be able to fully benefit from the funds originally earmarked for them at Berlin by switching , if necessary , underspends from accession to pre-accession , depending on the pace of individual countries . 
Secondly , another matter related to enlargement is the reform of the common agricultural policy . 
Instead of getting into a heated debate about whether or not to give the new member states direct payments , would we not do better to concentrate our energies on reforming the common agricultural policy by encouraging integrated rural development schemes and sound environmental working practices suitable not only for the existing Member States but for our applicant countries too ? 
The third area of concern is the funds available in category 4 ( external policy ) . 
Every year we face new international crises and we want to help solve them . 
We have a duty to help solve them , but if this has to be done year after year without new money , then of course we will run out of money and will have to make difficult decisions such as cutting off aid to one poor area to help another , or spreading our aid so thinly that it does not have the desired effect anywhere . 
Surely this can not be our aim . 
Also in this respect , we would like to know to what extent countries which receive aid will be encouraged and enabled to tender for contracts in public works and services themselves , so as to give long-term benefits to their economies . 
Many of the problems that affect injured parties in trade disputes , especially SMEs with limited resources , arise from the time it takes for the WTO to make its rulings - often many months , if not years . 
No doubt this will be the case with the new steel dispute with the Americans . 
But rather than granting compensation , which would probably arrive too late to prevent the business concerned from going to the wall , would it not be better for the WTO to have a system of temporary injunctions , which would require the suspension of such actions on the basis of prima facie evidence of illegal action until substantive decisions can be made ? 
Would the Commissioner be in favour of such a system ? 
If so , could he suggest how one might go about implementing it ? 
I am , however , very pleased that the President-in-Office drew attention to the cost of non-enlargement , which is by far the greater . 
It may well be true , as the President-in-Office said , that for us these countries will have waited a `` mere '' 15 years to join the Union . 
To them , however , those 15 years will seem more than half as long again as the decade that Spain waited to come into our Union . 
I believe it is incumbent upon us to do all we can to speed up the process of enlargement . 
The first step in that process is in the hands of the Presidency this week as the Council meets in Barcelona . 
President , you have emphasised that we have a responsibility for reuniting our divided continent . 
We must welcome those who wish to join us as soon as they are ready . 
This means , in Barcelona , agreeing important economic reforms , finding the way towards reform of the common agricultural policy , and moving towards reforms of our institutions . 
The Heads of State and Government must not fudge the opportunity of real economic reform in Barcelona . 
We must open up the markets for gas and electricity , both wholesale and domestic , by 2005 at the latest . 
We must recommit ourselves to the package of legislative measures in the financial services action plan , unblocking discussions in the Council . 
We must also see progress on public procurement and a European patent . 
If we are to fulfil our objective of staying within the financial perspectives , enlargement must also mean reform of the common agricultural policy . 
The over-production and waste which characterise the CAP and the worrying consequences for public health of intensive farming methods must be dealt with as we move towards a modern rural development policy , breaking the link with production and creating an environmentally sustainable policy providing aid to our farmers . 
The prospect of enlargement also requires us to make a success of the Convention . 
Our institutions and our decision-making procedures are like a Trabant , when what we need is a Mercedes . 
We need to design a constitutional settlement for the Union of the 21st century which goes beyond Nice , which is based on common rights and values , which addresses the legitimate concerns of our citizens , combining accountability , democracy and efficiency . 
Here , above all , what is called for is a responsible approach from our Member States . 
It is not helpful for financial discipline if the Italian Finance Minister questions the finances of enlargement . 
It is damaging , when a Community of 25 or 27 will need a strong Executive in the Commission , if the Head of Government of one of our large Member States accuses the Commission of a bias against his country , of wanting to smash the culture of one of his industrial producers , and of singling out his country . 
If we are to insist on a responsible approach from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe , then we need a more responsible approach ourselves . 
I hope that as we move towards the Danish Presidency later this year and the historic decisions on enlargement , we will see a responsible , united and purposeful Western Europe welcoming these new democracies into the democratic fold . 
Mr President , I apologise for taking up your time . 
It is the case , however , that this valuable report , which protects working people against noise in the workplace could have had unintended side effects on the music industry . 
I am very glad that Amendments Nos 23 and 25 were corrected , thereby saving the world of pipe bands amongst others . 
I think I am the only piper in this House , so I am particularly pleased about that ! 
But I do want to say to Mrs Thorning-Schmidt that her Scottish colleagues regret the way she was unfairly pilloried in our press . 
Very briefly , the question which I had on the Order Paper today has been dealt with by Mr de Miguel in an extremely courteous , helpful and kind letter to me , which I received this afternoon . 
I would like to thank him very much for that and say how much my constituent will appreciate the point . 
Mr President , I would like to thank Mrs Langenhagen for her report . 
These jobs provide a lifeline to so many people living in rural areas . 
That is why the Committee on Fisheries held a hearing and saw that the priorities for the industry were supply , continued employment , the environment , food safety , imports and also the consequences of enlargement . 
We know that some of our stocks are at seriously low levels , and therefore when there is a ban on cod fishing , it is not just the fishermen , but the processors that lose out too . 
We have to work towards availability of supply , but balance this with high hygiene levels and sustainability of that supply . 
The processing industry is an important one , which we should never lose sight of in any fishing debate . 
The waste water directive is a prime example where the concerns of the processing sector were overlooked . 
I am therefore pleased that the Committee endorsed my amendments which emphasised that the impact of legislation should be fully assessed , and specifically , that the Commission should provide support for the development for water recycling systems , such as the one recently established by a processor in my own area in the north-east of Scotland . 
Greater attention needs to be paid to structural support . 
Processors have been hard hit by CFP management measures , from quota cuts to decommissioning , but received little or no assistance . 
Structural support should be positive , not just reacting to management measures , but being proactive in supporting the sector , promoting new technologies and encouraging effective marketing . 
Mr President , I would like to associate myself with the sentiments of the previous speakers on the subject of Mr Marco Biagi . 
President , I congratulate you on the success of your first summit as President of this House . 
You set out to establish this Parliament as a credible and reliable partner in the interinstitutional dialogue and to demonstrate that Parliament , for its part , has closed what Mr Prodi described as the `` delivery gap '' . 
You succeeded admirably on both counts . 
President-in-Office , Liberal Democrats welcome a number of solid achievements at Barcelona . 
The increase in overseas development aid to an EU average of 0.39 % of gross national income is a positive step . 
If the Union can go on to meet the UN target of 0.7 % of gross national income , we will no longer deprive the poor of EUR 100 billion per annum in development assistance . 
We also applaud the Summit 's emphasis on making work pay and on reducing the tax burden on the low-paid , and the agreement on the energy tax directive . 
We need more economic growth but it must not be at the expense of our natural environment which we hold in trust for future generations . 
On the Middle East , we welcome the declaration made by the European Council . 
We urge the Israelis and the Palestinians to start fresh talks based on United Nations Security Council Regulation 1397 , to accept international observers , to respect the Geneva Convention and to renounce terrorism and indiscriminate violence . 
I would also like to congratulate the High Representative , Mr Solana , on the deal he brokered between Serbia and Montenegro : truly a first for European Union diplomacy . 
British Prime Minister Tony Blair described the Barcelona Summit as a `` make-or-break '' occasion . 
He may now regret that hyperbole , because although Barcelona undoubtedly represents a step forward on the road to economic reform , it is clear that this road will be long and winding . 
We must ensure that the delivery gap identified by Mr Prodi does not turn into a credibility gap due to the Council 's failure to meet the multitude of targets that it sets at every Summit . 
One such example of a credibility gap is the partial agreement on energy liberalisation . 
What credibility will it have in the eyes of the our citizens if we deny them the benefits of more choice and lower energy prices ? 
We urge the Council to support Parliament 's call for a second stage of energy liberalisation to include domestic customers by 2005 . 
The EU 's credibility is also at stake in financial services . 
The pension funds directive has remained blocked in Council since it was adopted by Parliament at our first reading in July of last year . 
This is a prime example of a delivery gap which Parliament has closed but which requires more than warm words from the Council . 
The Council has other ambitious aspirations too , such as reaching agreement on the European Patent by May , and the Public Procurement Framework . 
If the credibility of these spring economic summits is not to be undermined , then Prime Ministers must apply themselves to banging heads together to make sure their national ministers make progress on these issues . 
If we are to close the gap , President-in-Office , between the European Union and its citizens , this will not be achieved by suspending people 's rights to free movement , especially if those people wish to exercise their democratic rights to express their views in protest . 
Moreover , bringing the EU closer to its citizens requires progress on transparency . 
Paragraph 51 of the conclusions calls for ensuring greater transparency of the legislative process . 
You are already four months late in implementing this . 
We call on you to do so . 
Finally , in paragraph 20 , the Council conclusions envisage the creation of a group of wise men . 
I wonder whether , at a time when you recognise the importance of women 's participation in the labour force and when you express concern for the welfare of women in Nigeria , you might not , at least in this third millennium , talk about of a group of wise persons . 
Together these two major policy areas swallow half of the total EU budget but both the CAP and CFP have failed to meet their core objectives . 
With that record of failure radical reform is long overdue and I am pleased to see that such proposals are central to the policy strategy for 2003 . 
Indeed , in mid-April , the European Commission will publish its legislative proposals for the reform of the common fisheries policy . 
The centrepiece of this reform package will surely be devolution , devolving fisheries management to key stakeholders in discrete fishing zones . 
Although these committees will only act in an advisory capacity , at least initially , by involving fishermen , scientists and marine ecologists they will mark a dramatic step towards decentralisation of power , away from Brussels , and back to the grass roots . 
At a time of collapsing fish stocks , diminishing fleets , lost jobs , decommissioning , tie-ups and lay-offs , such an initiative could not come too soon and is to be greatly welcomed . 
In the EU we have far too many fishermen chasing far too few fish . 
Recent case studies in Mauritania and Senegal show that they have depleted stocks . 
In Mauritania , catches of octopus have halved in the past four years . 
Some species , such as sawfish , have disappeared altogether . 
I applaud the policy strategy for seeking sustainable and inclusive objectives but let us remember such objectives must apply outside the EU just as much as inside . 
. The Barcelona Council , despite the big talk by Tony Blair before it , was disappointing and timid . 
The Council promised in the past to put sustainability in the forefront of European Development . 
This Summit has paid no more than lip-service to this commitment . 
The so-called ` liberalization ' favoured by Blair 's right wing caucus has hit the rock of French immoveability in relation to energy production in the domestic sector , so it remains the case that Electricité de France can take over companies outside France while protected from converse interventions . 
The rhetoric of liberalisation too frequently cloaks policies toward the single market that are dancing to the tune of monopolistically inclined interests of vast corporations . 
Adam Smith 's vision of a free economy unhampered by interventions of massive aggregations of capital is far from the reality that we see in the contemporary globalised economy . 
In relation to Gibraltar , no one can fail to welcome progress between Spain and the United Kingdom . 
But there is no reference to the people of Gibraltar . 
What has become of self-determination ? 
Mr President , this week we are debating military conflicts in two places : Chechnya and Palestine . 
Both have worsened since the Western World declared war on terrorism . 
It seems almost as if the dominant power in each conflict has taken advantage of the anti-terrorist cause to enhance its strategic position . 
The impact on the lives of those caught in the crossfire , both literally and metaphorically , has been devastating . 
For reasons of history , humanity and security , we have a duty to intervene to prevent the fighting . 
Diplomacy , thus far , has failed , whether sponsored by the United Nations , the United States of America , the European Union or the neighbouring states . 
It is probably the Saudi peace plan which currently offers the most promising pointers to peace . 
The warring parties themselves offer little hope of a solution . 
Neither Mr Sharon nor Mr Arafat can secure peace , just as certainly as neither can impose it . 
Mr Arafat 's record of involvement in terrorism and his continued acquiescence in abominable Palestinian terrorist acts are at least in part to blame for the current situation . 
The best way forward , in the view of Liberal Democrats in this House , is to establish an immediate embargo on arms exports to Israel and Palestine , and to persuade the United Nations to mount an international mission to send troops to the region to enforce peace . 
Only then might the extremists be moved aside and the moderates be brought together by an honest broker in a political process in which the arguments of force give way to the force of arguments . 
Reckless military adventurism on one side and cynical acceptance of terrorism on the other offer only further bloodshed and misery and the deepening of mutual hatreds , which will delay and render more difficult the achievement of lasting peace . 
The recent Israeli military incursions into Palestinian territory have been as shocking as they have been self-defeating . 
You might talk to Colin Powell tomorrow about threatening suspension of USD 3 billion of aid annually to Israel . 
Human rights observers should be deployed to document the plight of innocent Palestinian citizens , who suffer daily disrupted lives , random harassment , gratuitous humiliation and , in some cases , torture and death . 
The international community is clear on where the borders must be drawn to secure the co-existence in two states of six million Israeli and some 4 million Palestinian citizens . 
We can not stand by while United Nations resolutions are flouted by an aggressive policy of settlements and a refusal to seek peace . 
When international law is so blatantly ignored , such bloodshed , as we have seen , is unavoidable . 
Those responsible must , eventually , be brought to justice . 
On Thursday of this week , the statute for a permanent International Criminal Court will enter into force . 
From Sabra and Chatila 20 years ago , to what is happening in Jenin this afternoon , Mr Sharon might reflect on whether he wishes to be among its first clients . 
Mr President , like everybody else here , I enormously appreciate the work which Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi did as rapporteur , partly because we appreciated so much her work as chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market . 
I agree very much with the three points she wanted us to focus on , although on one I take a different view . 
We are all agreed about the importance of preserving a role for national offices . 
On the second point about jurisdiction , it seems to many of us to have been a part of the genius of the development of the European Community that justice was largely decentralised and that the role of the Community courts in matters particularly of private law and commercial law was an advisory or secondary role , with the main jurisdictions being localised . 
That is a vitally important principle to keep - if it can be done without destroying the patent regime . 
So I hope that the jurisdictional proposals will be accepted . 
Then there is the language regime , a question on which I differ , with great respect for Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi , and so does my group . 
We believe that sustaining the existing system inside the European Patent Office is important . 
Mr President , we have reached that time of the evening at which I am sure Commissioner Bolkestein , Mrs Ayuso González , you and I can all think of better things to do with ethyl alcohol than talk about it . 
However , we are fated to spend at least a few more minutes in conversation . 
I would like to express profound sympathy with Mrs Ayuso González for the amount of work and time she has put into this report , only to discover that it was not possible to construct an adequate legal base to bring in both the sources of ethyl alcohol . 
As I understand it , ethyl alcohol produced for industrial use comes more or less equally from agricultural sources and from non-agricultural sources , chiefly from the oil industry . 
In that context , it would be necessary to find a dual legal base to deal with both together . 
Personally I think she is right that it would be absurd for the Community to try to deal with this single identical substance differently according to the two alternative sources . 
On the other hand , the economics of production and the industrial circumstances of production are quite different , as I am sure Commissioner Bolkestein knows even better than I from his own manifold past experience . 
So it is quite an important question to try and find a way of dealing with the whole market in a way that is sensitive to both sources of production . 
It would have been objectionable - I know from contacts of my own with the oil industry in Scotland - to spatchcock the oil industry-produced ethanol into an agricultural organisation which had been set up without regard to circumstances in the other sector , so we need a two-handed approach to this . 
Thus it is absolutely right to suggest that the Commission should put its thinking cap on again and come back with a new look at whatever is needed in the way of keeping an eye on the whole alcohol market at this difficult time , dealing even-handedly with both sources of production . 
Mr President , almost all ordinary citizens of Israel wish to live in peace in their own country . 
They wish to have a country with secure borders and normal diplomatic relations with all its Arab neighbours . 
How can we help extinguish the fire that has devastated Palestine and reduced the people to a life of humiliation , fear and deprivation of the basic amenities of life ? 
The Palestinians , both Muslims and Christians , dream and wish to have their country as well and they will not rest until they have a secure and viable state based on a just and fair settlement . 
How can the EU help ? 
Let us stop being polite and politically correct . 
To my delight today is the first time in my two and a half years as an MEP that I have heard Members of this House address this topic with such confidence . 
We have been gagged for all this time . 
Let us spell out what is needed for such a fair and just settlement ; things that we all believe in but are too afraid to say . 
Firstly , Israel must have the right to exist with a secure border and it must be fully recognised as a state by all its neighbours . 
Secondly , Israel must respect international law and its own national laws , as well UN Security Council resolutions . 
Thirdly , Israel must accept neutral international observers under UN sponsorship to facilitate a ceasefire . 
Ordinary people , Jews , Muslims and Christians , are fed up with their politicians . 
That is what Israel has to pull back to . 
Until that happens there will be no peace in the Middle East and that brings the terror , fear and difficulties that we now see in the European Union . 
It is time that we spelt out the way it should be . 
Mr President , I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report which we should see it firstly in the overall context of rebuilding fish stocks . 
The key points are firstly rebuilding fish stocks and secondly the need to devise ways of measuring fleets . 
I welcome Mr Kindermann 's work in this area . 
He has given us some very good pointers such as reminding us that we are not dealing with one single Community fleet , but with fishing fleets of individual Member States and that each Member State has its own quota for individual fish stocks . 
As for the data that the report is based on , we should remember that Member States have until the end of 2003 to report new figures and bear in mind that we still do not know how many ships are in the EU fleet . 
This is worrying and must be rectified . 
I welcome Mr Kindermann highlighting this . 
My final point is that Member States should pass on information to the governments and parliaments in the Member States . 
Mr President , I thank the rapporteur for his work in this area . 
It is clear that the capacity of the EU fishing fleet is greater than available resources and that therefore firm action is needed to allow many fish stocks to recover to sustainable levels . 
The Commission should better assess the impact of so-called exploited capacity by certain Member States who , at least on paper , claim to have met their MEGP target . 
The Commission should also ensure stricter enforcement of existing penalties on certain Member States so that the Member States themselves are penalised and not the fishermen . 
I hope the House will support the amendment which was originally tabled in committee by my group colleague , Mr Nogueira because it is very important . 
Fisheries in certain areas of the European Union , including Scotland , are a devolved responsibility and it is important that direct communication between ourselves and devolved parliaments should be standard practice . 
Madam President , I was one of the five Members of Parliament who went to Monterrey and I want to put it on record that what Mr. Nielson did before the Monterrey Conference was extremely good . 
This achievement embarrassed the United States , because it realised that its contribution is very small indeed . 
This is a very small sum when you think that the United States has given its military establishment USD 100 billion since September last year , and that is why President Bush promised a further USD 5 billion in development finance by 2006 . 
That would bring the US contribution up to USD 15 billion , which is still very low indeed when you think that people like Bill Gates give USD 1 billion as personal donations . 
Because Mr Fischler is here , I would like to say that EU agricultural subsidies are killing the poor farmers in the Third World . 
He knows this and I know he is in favour of persuading Member States to do something about the food mountains that we create . 
I would like to make one other point about HIV , AIDS , TB and malaria . 
The Monterrey conference did not discuss these issues at great length , and did not commit itself to allocating funding to them in a special category . 
Mr President , as author of last year 's report on the future of the biotechnology industries , I can only welcome most warmly the high priority given to the life sciences in the Sixth Framework Research Programme and strongly supported in Mr Caudron 's excellent report . 
On the health side , there are great prospects for breakthrough cures for some of mankind 's most dreaded afflictions : cancers , heart disease , diabetes and cystic fibrosis , all the neurological diseases - such as Alzheimer 's , Parkinson 's , dementia , motor-neurone , spinal and brain injuries . 
Genetic intervention could eliminate hereditary disasters such as haemophilia and Huntington 's Corea which overshadow some families so tragically . 
On the crop side , the potential is no less exciting , even if this suffers from a campaign of denial from certain shameless vested interests . 
Hundreds of thousands have died and continue to die from smoking and road accidents , but no one has ever died from genetically modified crops or foods . 
So much potential good is available to us in reduced applications of herbicides and pesticides , in reduced energy consumption and CO2 releases , and in better quality and higher yields . 
This is before considering the potential in the developing world for feeding the starving , growing crops in drought-ridden and saline soils , rectifying vitamin deficiencies and so preventing disease for millions . 
I call on the Commission and the Member State governments to brace their backbones and stand up robustly for what they know is for the good of mankind . 
Approving the Sixth Framework Research Programme is only the beginning . 
We must follow up with the practical steps which will fully realise the potential of biotechnology . 
Mr President , the timeliness of this debate is beyond dispute . 
The recent rise of anti-immigrant sentiment in France and the Netherlands shows what happens when governments fail to respond to the challenge of immigration . 
We know that , quite apart from the valuable contribution which immigrants bring to our societies in terms of increased cultural diversity , there are sound economic reasons for a policy of managed immigration , such as meeting labour shortages and funding our creaking pension systems . 
Indeed , our prosperity will depend on immigration . 
The question therefore is : what policy should we adopt to make immigration politically acceptable ? 
What we must not do , as too many socialist governments have done , is to bury our heads in the sand and refuse to address the challenge . 
It is in large part the failure of EU governments to police our borders , to tackle discrimination and xenophobia , and to integrate immigrants harmoniously into our societies that has led to this impasse . 
No wonder public concern continues to grow . 
The Liberal Democrat approach would be to open the front door a little , by providing legal avenues for immigration , in order better to close the back door to illegal immigration . 
A policy of managed legal immigration , co-ordinated among Member States , does not mean a free-for-all . 
Incentives to immigrants to settle more evenly across their host countries would help . 
A policy which balances rights and duties , so that those newly arriving understand that they can work in their host country and enjoy free movement in the Union and other benefits of EU citizenship , would be helpful too . 
But they must also understand the need to make an effort to integrate and to live by the rules of the society they join . 
It is nonsensical political correctness to dismiss any requirement that immigrants should learn the language of their host country . 
Moreover , proper support for integration must be provided and we must combat discrimination and racism wherever it is found . 
In this regard , I would pay tribute to the work of the European Union Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia , and I commend to political parties the Charter of Political Parties for a non-racist society . 
We also need to invest more in our justice systems and the enforcement of legal judgments - we can only expect immigrants to respect core values if we too ensure that these values are respected fully by existing society . 
A policy of managed immigration requires tough action to control the Union 's external borders and I therefore congratulate the Commission for its initiative on a common border guard corps . 
We also need to do more to help the poor and dispossessed , as the Commissioner said , in their countries of origin , so that they do not have to resort in desperation to criminal gangs of people-smugglers . 
Most people do not want to up sticks and move elsewhere , so helping to relieve the pressure of illegal immigration is yet another argument , if one were needed , for promoting global free trade and making progress towards the UN target of 0.7 % of GDP for development aid . 
As far as asylum policy is concerned , here again the Liberal Democrat Group is broadly supportive of the Commission 's proposals and often sceptical of actions proposed in Council . 
In conclusion , we believe that there is both a moral and an economic case for managed immigration and a humanitarian approach to asylum . 
We in the ELDR Group will support the Commission in its efforts to move the Union towards the common policies foreseen in the Amsterdam Treaty . 
For in the words of that great Liberal J.K. Galbraith : `` Migration is the oldest action against poverty . 
What is the perversity in the human soul that causes people to resist so obvious a good ? '' . 
I should like to ask a follow-up question . 
Unfortunately , what appears to have happened just now is that the wind has been taken out of the sails of the whole reform which has become becalmed . 
We are now in a position where we hope that we do not see the timetable derailed to the point where we may go beyond the end of this year and find ourselves in 2003 when some important derogations will have expired and we could potentially have a `` free-for-all '' in our fisheries throughout the EU . 
That would not benefit any of us and would not benefit fish stocks , which are nearing collapse . 
We have waited for this reform package for years . 
Our fishermen are suffering . 
Can we have a guarantee - and I am sure the Commission can give us this - that it retains its absolute independence in this matter and will not be subject to bullying from any individual Member State or any other source ? 
I wonder whether we have the right Commissioner answering questions on this subject given the delay to the package . 
I accept that Mr Fischler continues to be committed to a meaningful reform of the common fisheries policy , but I wonder whether he would comment further on the suggestions that improper pressure has been put on other people in the Commission . 
Perhaps the President of the Commission might be asked to make a statement on this matter . 
Also could he confirm whether the Director-General of Fisheries was moved as part of a routine package ? 
Was it the case that every other person who was moved under that package had only a few hours notice of that move ? 
Is it the case that the particular difficulty in getting agreement on the package relates to a very specific part of the package and , if so , why is it felt necessary to delay the entire package of reform ? 
Can I ask the Commissioner : if this morning 's debate is anything to go by , Parliament will probably accept the common position subject to the en bloc agreed amendments . 
But I am slightly at a loss to know exactly what that will mean in this particular area . 
So perhaps the Commissioner could clarify , for example : if an application for embryonic stem cell research came from the UK , or from Italy , or from Germany , would there be EU funding in each of those cases ? 
The Commissioner seemed in the interpretation to say that embryonic stem cell research would not be allowed to receive funding at all . 
That is not my understanding of the situation . 
Mr President , my task is the ordinarily rather boring one of reporting that the Legal Affairs Committee considered this matter and found it not to be wanting . 
In fact , here we have a proposal under Article 37 which is fully justified as a common agricultural policy issue , and , therefore , the procedures are appropriate . 
Of course , it is important that we should check that there is an adequate legal base . 
We are now discussing in the Convention and elsewhere , the question of holding the Community organs to their proper competences and I am delighted that this regulation passes muster in that respect . 
It is also , as Mr Kindermann has said , a good thing to take this complex body of law and consolidate it into a single regulation that will give us a community of approach throughout the Community . 
If we were to move more and more strongly towards local production for local consumption , just as Mrs Lucas said a moment ago , we would avoid some of these dangers . 
It is vitally important that , in introducing these very necessary laws , we are careful to ensure that we do not create circumstances which themselves increase the pressure for excessive animal movement . 
I hope that will be taken into account . 
If I have strayed beyond the limits of the Legal Affairs Committee , at least I have not strayed beyond my time . 
Mr President , like others I take it to be a great privilege to participate in this debate - late in the day , though it is . 
My own group has two particular points that we would like to ask colleagues to build into the report before it finally sees the light of day . 
Firstly , just an allusion to the significance of the democratic deficit and the need , finally , fully to democratise the institutions of the Union . 
As long as we do not call it a `` permanent '' democratic deficit , I am sure that the PPE-DE Group will be with us on that , and I hope that will be written in . 
Further , we suggest - and colleagues on the left are very much in agreement with this - that a little more emphasis on the social , as well as the economic and political element - should be written in . 
Apart from that , we are really very happy with the way this is going forward and look forward to voting for it tomorrow . 
The key point Mr Lamassoure makes - and has made throughout - is that the issue is not one of needing to rewrite a new list of competences for the institutions but a need to draw to citizens ' attention to the fact that there is already a very adequate statement of the different kinds of competences - the Union 's own competences and the shared ones - and the fact that the principle of residuarity governs the rest . 
The states are responsible for what is not given to the Union . 
All that is clear in principle , but it could do with being stated more clearly in practice so that citizens are better aware of it . 
In that context , we raise the issue of subsidiarity . 
Recital G makes a very important contribution to expanding and giving greater bite to the idea of subsidiarity , and that is also to be very greatly welcomed . 
We in our group believe much in extended subsidiarity . 
Subsidiarity does not stop at the front door of the Member States : it goes right down to the territorial entities within the Member States , to the local authorities within the Member States , and that is of critical importance to us all . 
We , along with the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism and the Liberals , would like a little more strength to it , but we do not mind . 
This report as it stands now represents a huge step forward in the thinking of Europeans and of this Parliament . 
I repeat , it is a huge privilege to take part in this debate and in particular - and I say it in his presence - it is a privilege to have taken part in a debate led by Mr Lamassoure , who has done such an extraordinary job of setting up the architecture but being willing to adjust the sculpture , to borrow a metaphor of his own this morning . 
He has done a fantastic job , we are all greatly in his debt , and I hope my group will vote unanimously with him tomorrow . 
Mr President , Amendment No 1 in the English texts opens with the phrase ` Considers that there is a continuing democratic deficit in the European Union ' , and goes on to say that , ` we should democratise the institutions therefore ... ' . 
In some language versions , the English word ` continuing ' has been translated as ` permanent ' which , for example in Spanish , gave rise to some distress . 
Mr President , I hope I am not too late . 
I asked in a note for an oral amendment to insert the word `` by '' , so that it would read `` or by the Committee of the Regions '' , and that would make a considerable difference . 
Mr President , it is sometimes hard to keep a clear head when grievances fill the air and I think we are seeing the results of that . 
It is clear that certain allegations have been made about the activity of certain Commissioners and others in a case involving fisheries , but this matter has been considered by the Conference of Presidents . 
The Fisheries Committee has been asked to look into it and report back to the Conference of Presidents and I understand that the Budgetary Control Committee is also looking into it . 
It is important that we allow due process to take place in Parliament before raising these issues in plenary . 
It is also important that we do not mix the question of these allegations with a very important communication that the Commission has brought forward on the future of the common fisheries policy on how to safeguard fish stocks for future generations . 
So I would ask you , Mr President , to ask Mr Schulz , on behalf of the Socialist Group , to bring this back to the Conference of Presidents in due course . 
We will be submitting that report to the Conference of Presidents after the Fisheries Committee has had a further look at the report to make sure they agree that it is a fair record of the hearing that took place last week . 
Our job in the Fisheries Committee , as Brian Crowley has just said , is now to focus our attention on the common fisheries policy reform package . 
To do otherwise and put any further obstacles in the way of getting this reform back on track , is simply to play into the hands of those who sought to derail the whole process in the first place . 
I would hope this House would support the Fisheries Committee in looking at the reform package . 
If there are other questions to be asked about personnel management or any other aspect of this controversy , then I would leave that to your good offices in the Conference of Presidents . 
Mr President , I accept the reasons that the Conference of Presidents had in the first place for keeping separate the debate about the substance of the proposals which we are all very anxious to be getting on with . 
But I also believe that we have unfinished business in relation to the recent controversy . 
As others have said , there are wider issues that are worthy of further inquiry . 
For instance , it is a remarkable coincidence that 10 years ago , the last time the CFP was under review , the then Director-General of Fisheries departed in very similar circumstances during a very similar controversy . 
So in order to clear up the cloud that could hang over the Commission in this matter , I think there is a case for further consideration , separately from the Fisheries Committee 's consideration of the substance of the proposals . 
By way of an emergency , it was rushed through the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development yesterday in a new form without any reference back to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market . 
That is an irregular way of proceeding and I request that Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market be asked , even it is asked to do it quickly , to verify that a legal base exists for this measure in its new form . 
While I am on my feet on the issue of Rule 63 , a lot of the issues under the common fisheries policy reform raise profound issues of legal base , and hopefully that will thoroughly considered in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market as well as the Committee on Fisheries . 
Mr President , I am grateful to the Commissioner for his presentation . 
Of course , radical reform of the CFP was long overdue and the Commission is to be congratulated on producing a dynamic first package of proposals , particularly in view of the concerted effort to derail the reforms , which we were speaking about at the beginning of this meeting , and the attendant storm of controversy that this clumsy bullying tactic created . 
I welcome the proposals to make permanent the 6 and 12-mile zones which are essential safeguards for fisheries . 
I am delighted to see significant devolution of management and conservation controls to the Member States within these zones . 
Indeed , devolution of management is a core feature of these CFP reform proposals . 
The creation of regional advisory councils involving fishermen , scientists , representatives of the aquaculture sector , marine ecologists and even the recreational angling sector , together with regional politicians represents a breakthrough in stakeholder involvement . 
I applaud the bravery of the Commission in demanding an immediate end to the bizarre spectacle of subsidising modernisation and new building of vessels in some Member States , while subsidising the scrapping of vessels in others . 
We must therefore insist that all public aid be switched from modernisation and restructuring and new building to scrapping . 
However , as regards overall capacity reduction in the EU fleet there is great concern about the Commission 's figures . 
Taking individual examples , the UK will be required to scrap 23.1 % , Belgium 25.3 % , Denmark 27.3 % and Sweden will face a staggering loss of 49.7 % of her gross tonnage . 
Meanwhile , Spain , with by far the largest fleet in the EU , escapes with only a 9.4 % cut and Italy with the second largest fleet only suffers a cut of 7.3 % . 
The Commissioner said that we do not want to go down the road of everyone being equal , but some people being more equal than others - that seems to be exactly the road we are going down with these proposed cuts . 
I take it that the Commissioner can confirm today that recent efforts in certain areas will be taken into account in that regard . 
I welcome the 6 and 12 mile limit retention , but beyond 12 miles I have some very serious concerns about the wording of the documents in relation to access to waters and resources and in relation to relative stability . 
Is the Commission saying that equal access will bring equal access to fishing opportunities in our waters ? 
Is the document really saying that relative stability keys will be perennially open for review ? 
Does the Commission envisage additional Member States gaining quota in areas where they have none at the moment - for example , in the North Sea ? 
So I am looking for major and clear assurances of intent in that area . 
For example , the Scottish fleet has already shrunk in recent years to a more sustainable size . 
We must see an end to the subsidising of boat-building and put this money into helping fishermen who are coming out of the industry to find new employment . 
We must see the retention of the 6 and 12-mile limits as proposed by the Commission - most Member States agree that these act as a safeguard for coastal regions especially dependent on fishing - with much closer involvement of the fishing industry via the new regional advisory councils in the development and operation of fisheries management measures . 
We must seriously examine the problem of discards and we need improved inspection and enforcement standards across the Community and an equalising of these standards . 
Finally , we need better agreement on fishing in developing countries ' waters , based on sound science to prevent over-exploitation of stocks . 
Time is short , but if the will is there I am confident we can have a CFP fit for this century . 
Mr President , I rise to make a point of order before Commissioner Fischler replies to this debate . 
Mr Barón Crespo said he had no faith in my neutrality as chairman of the Committee on Fisheries . 
I strive at all times as chairman of that committee for complete neutrality , but neutrality has to be built on a platform of fair play . 
I hope the House will support me on that . 
Mr President , I appreciate that in a debate like this the Commissioner has many , many questions to get to in the summing up , but my questions were specific , in particular in relation to relative stability , which was not mentioned in the summing up . 
Does it open the possibility that the allocation keys could be ... 
Against my own advice the Legal Affairs Committee held that further and clearer information was required and a letter was sent requesting such information , to which I understand no reply has yet been received . 
However , about a couple of weeks ago I raised this at the coordinators ' meeting of the Legal Affairs Committee , saying that I hoped that a further inquiry might be made in order to clarify this matter one way or the other , as we ought , as speedily as we reasonably can . 
Mr President , a little while ago you very vigorously wrote to Air France protesting at conditions in which people travel to this Parliament . 
You received a very emollient reply from Air France assuring you that no such untoward thing would occur ever again . 
I should like to report to Members of the House , who I am sure will feel an agony of sympathy for me , that today , for the second successive occasion , on turning up at Edinburgh Airport in good time for my check-in for the Air France flight from Edinburgh to Paris to catch the Strasbourg plane , I was told the plane was overbooked and I should re-route myself via Brussels in order to arrive here for 5 o'clock . 
This is a pretty poor show and I have written a letter drawing attention to this shabby state of affairs - which will , no doubt , not receive as emollient a reply as yours did . 
I am sorry because I had hoped to raise a point about the agenda , which we have now adopted . 
Perhaps I will have a chance tomorrow morning . 
Mr President , I am greatly relieved as rapporteur in this case to finally have the opportunity of presenting this report before the House , whether it be rejected or accepted in the end . 
I have been a Member of the House for just under three years and for nearly all that time I have been honoured to be one of the rapporteurs on parliamentary privilege and immunity for the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market . 
One of the earliest tasks assigned to me was a bundle of requests from Members from Italy , or from their lawyers , concerning their concern that prosecutions or other legal actions were taking place in Italy which violated their immunity . 
Our Rules of Procedure which will I hope be amended in the light of the Duff report make elaborate provision for the steps Parliament should take in order to decide whether or not to waive immunity on receipt of a request from the proper authorities of the Member State . 
The problem in the Italian cases was that no request had been received other than from the Members themselves and this gave rise to concern . 
If it were the case that privileges or immunities enjoyed by Members of this House were being ignored by a Member State that would be a serious matter . 
If it were case that Members could show that their position as Members of this House , as legislators on the European scene , was being prejudiced by conduct of a Member State and there was no way to bring this before the House solely because no appropriate authority in a Member State had sought to have the immunity waived , this would in itself be clearly an unsatisfactory state of affairs . 
The House possesses immunity under two different provisions . 
Under Article 9 of the Protocol of 1965 , Members enjoy immunity from any form of enquiry , detention or legal proceedings in respect of opinions expressed or votes cast by them in the performance of their duties . 
There are other immunities which arise in other circumstances where the immunity a Member enjoys is equivalent to that of a Member of a Member State parliament in their own Member State and in other Member States , an immunity from prosecution except with the agreement of Parliament . 
Our Rules of Procedure are silent on what we should do in that case . 
It seems to me that as a democratic legislative assembly , we must have some inherent power to draw it to the attention of Member States if the conditions of free debate are being violated in this House . 
Looking at the cases as clearly and candidly as possible , it seems to me that Mr Speroni 's was one where because matters were asked concerning an explanation of votes in the House he was clearly being called to account for an opinion expressed in the exercise of his functions . 
Mr Marra 's case was one in which documents published by Mr Marra is his capacity as a Member had , in a complex way , given rise to prosecutions or judicial allegations . 
These seem to be clear cases where Article 9 was in issue . 
The Committee thought , but I do not think , that Mr Dell ` Utri 's case was the same . 
The reason why I differed from the Committee is that in Mr Dell ` Utri 's case , the statements made , whatever their truth and whatever their legal character , were made several years before Mr Dell ` Utri became a Member of the House . 
I can not see any sensible reading of a provision concerning opinions expressed or votes cast by us in the performance of our duties which relates to statements we make before we become Members . 
You can not equate a candidate for office with a holder of office . 
This goes for ourselves in our capacities as candidates , by the way . 
I therefore recommend to the House that we take the action suggested in my report and that we draw these cases to the attention of the Italian authorities . 
My own Parliamentary group has moved an amendment to take the name of Mr Dell ` Utri out of the report and I personally believe that it is the right course to take . 
I hope I have given an account to colleagues of why I think it is right course to take and that it is simply a matter of an objective and fair-minded reading of the Protocol rather than an attempt to engage in a political judgement either way about the state of affairs in the Italian Republic . 
Mr President , I hope that the House will not accept this request for urgency . 
I was rapporteur for the legal basis issue when this report originally came before the committee and this House . 
The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market , after studying it carefully , came to the view and reported back that there was no satisfactory legal basis that could be devised for that proposal . 
On that account the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development proposed to this House , and the proposal was accepted , that the project be withdrawn for reconsideration by the Commission . 
Instead there was very quick reconsideration , and a substantial change . 
The Legal Affairs Committee , having had a look at it last week , concluded that the same objection concerning the legal basis applies because there is still an attempt , under Article 37 , to bring together agricultural and synthetic ethyl alcohol . 
Where a serious question has been raised about the legal basis , the committee responsible , upon considering a new solution to the problem , should surely once again ask for the legal basis issue to be properly looked at , not rush it through under urgent procedure . 
Mr President , blood safety is an important issue for citizens across the European Union . 
There have been far too many scare stories and accidents across the EU involving blood and blood components . 
This directive setting standards of quality and safety of collection is absolutely vital . 
With EU citizens travelling more and more and visiting other EU Member States , we must ensure that when any unfortunate accident happens , whether on holiday or at work , the people are safe in the knowledge about the quality and safety of the transfusion that is going into their bodies . 
Quality and safety are the watchwords , that is why in principle I support voluntary donation . 
This has been the topic , as we have heard , of a very heated debate and I feel that the rapporteur has given a strong sense of the feeling that voluntary donations are the preferred option in the EU . 
Most of these products come from the United States of America as there are not enough sources in the other Member States and , sadly , the products have to come from paid sources . 
Obviously Mr Bolkestein is finding this a difficult one to square with his own principles of the Single Market , and I sympathise with him in that . 
As I understand it , the Commission 's role is to make sure that the Community operates as a community and in accordance with its founding treaties . 
It should therefore work towards the Single Market by bringing forward a new directive which in fact implements the Single Market in television without frontiers . 
The only amendments we will oppose are No 6 , - which excludes European funding for research aimed at military purposes . 
We do not look for research specifically aimed at military ends , but research might have military as well as civilian applications , for example research into new materials . 
By including this prohibition clause , there could be unnecessary impediments to genuinely beneficial research projects . 
We also prefer the committee 's Amendment No 24 , regarding the budget , to Mrs Zorba 's Amendment No 26 , which specifies an amount for the Marie Curie International Fellowships . 
Our group has tabled a clarifying Amendment No 25 which specifies that participation will be permitted by those who hold doctoral degrees where those degrees were obtained in three , rather than four , years . 
I trust that Mrs Zorba will accept that this is a sensible clarification . 
I would like to concentrate on the specific programme for science and society , which is essential for re-establishing the necessary level of trust and mutual understanding between the scientific community and civil society at large . 
This is vital if Europe 's research effort is to be supported widely and with continuity and thereby realise its full potential . 
We have seen a lamentable breakdown in this relationship , perhaps as a result of faulty assertions by scientists and politicians in previous crises . 
Perhaps it is even more attributable to a lack of willingness by science and industry to communicate clearly and systematically . 
Our hope is that this programme will promote much improved communication and that the public will be much better informed about the objectives , the results , the applications , the achievements , the recognition of the ethical and environmental constraints and the practical usefulness of scientific endeavour . 
We wish Mr Busquin , his team and this programme well . 
I wish to place on record my support and appreciation for the hard work and expertise Richard Corbett has put into reforming Parliament 's rules . 
As a result of his efforts , Parliament should now function better and hold more interesting debates . 
It should now be able to cope with enlargement . 
This is a first and important step in making Parliament a more effective voice for the people in EU decision-making . 
Mr President , I thank the President-in-Office and the Commissioner for a helpful introduction to this debate and I congratulate the rapporteurs for their good work on the reports before us today . 
I also take this opportunity to welcome to this House the parliamentarians from the Liberal family in the applicant states who are watching this debate from the gallery and have joined us to debate the issues this week . 
That parliamentarians from Bulgaria and Romania are here today is a welcome reminder that we are negotiating enlargement with 12 applicant states , even if the timescales for accession may differ a little . 
Those of us from countries that were not founder members of the European Community remember only too well the anxiety and sense of expectation which surrounded our entry negotiations and the decisions to ratify our application . 
Coming from a country which had its application vetoed twice , I know of the enduring damage done to perceptions of European integration when a country is rejected . 
We should bear this in mind in assessing the current applicants . 
We must recognise that the applicant states have worked hard in recent years to reform their economies and consolidate democracy in order to join the Union . 
While we expect them to redouble their efforts in the run-up to and after accession , we must also reward those efforts . 
That is why Liberal Democrats insist that both the criteria and the timetable must be respected . 
We should not apply stricter standards than for previous enlargements , nor pretend that everything in our own gardens smells sweet . 
Enlargement is a process of continuous assessment , not a one-off exam . 
There are hotheads and faint hearts on both sides who will seek to exploit difficulties in meeting the Copenhagen criteria . 
We must not allow them to derail enlargement . 
It is far better to overcome outstanding problems through the enlargement process . 
What is important to the health of a country is the direction in which its face is set and the screening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms must be an ongoing process , part of a wider scrutiny of all Member States - old and new - in a European Union with the Charter of Fundamental Rights at its heart . 
Liberal Democrats deplore the abuse of enlargement negotiations to reopen old wounds and animosities . 
The infamous Bene ? decrees are a good example of this . 
It serves no useful purpose to inflame tensions on this issue , which is why my group has tabled amendments to Mr Brok 's report to seek to lower the temperature of the debate . 
The refusal of four governments - including Mr Murphy 's - at the General Affairs Council this week to reach agreement on a common position on agriculture stems in part from the inadequacy of the financing package agreed in Berlin . 
We are constrained to live within Berlin 's limits , but if a deal is postponed until autumn - as some propose - this would jeopardise the prospect of admitting new Member States in time for the European Parliament elections in 2004 . 
We support the Commission 's proposals to phase-in direct payments but , as soon as enlargement is agreed , we must take forward reform of the CAP . 
We need to shift the focus away from the producer onto the consumer , from quantity to quality . 
On the controversial issue of free movement of persons , I urge all Member States to follow the lead of Denmark , Sweden , Ireland and the Netherlands , which have said they will apply no restrictions to free movement . 
There are no rational grounds for believing that enlargement will be followed by the mass migration sometimes feared by our citizens . 
It is precisely these fears which we , as politicians , have to tackle head on . 
We have a responsibility to make the case for enlargement to our electorates and we must not shrink from that challenge . 
Let ours not be the generation which flunks this opportunity . 
Mr President , I shall start by also congratulating Mrs Stihler on her excellent report and on the excellent speech she made this evening in this House . 
Everyone in this House is aware that fish stocks are in sharp decline across the EU . 
That is why the Commission has come to us with a radical new package of proposals for reform of the common fisheries policy . 
That is why we are facing an 18 % cut in overall gross tonnage in the EU fleet , with the attendant massive impact that this will have on jobs in many economically challenged and remote peripheral areas of the Community . 
However , we also understand that the two species at most serious risk of collapse are cod and northern hake . 
The International Council for the Exploration of the Sea ( ICES ) claims that hake stocks are on the verge of collapse . 
Other independent scientists claim the stocks are still at sustainable levels and they challenge the ICES findings . 
As Mrs McKenna has pointed out in her speech this evening , we are pledged in this House to apply the precautionary principle whenever such doubts exist . 
In these circumstances , I would appeal to this House to reinstate hake in the Commission 's recovery plan until such time as the scientific evidence can be analysed and verified in exactly the way Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna has called for this evening . 
Yesterday , as we all know , a substantial number of Member States voiced their opposition to certain aspects of the Commission 's proposals for reforming the CFP during the Fisheries Council . 
They want public aid to be used for building new vessels , they want open access to Community waters , they support short-term profits over long-term sustainability , they oppose change , they support the status quo . 
Theirs is surely a policy of despair . 
While I accept that recovery plans for hake must be specific to that fishery , I do not believe that hake should be excluded from the proposal . 
As to the details of the proposal , I have some concerns to highlight . 
Firstly , the Commission must take greater account of mixed fisheries which are impacted by recovery plans . 
Crucially I am not convinced that the Commission has learned the lessons from the dangers of displacing effort , as we saw in the north of Scotland last year . 
The Commission must ensure that scientific advice is reliable and verifiable , not just in determining what areas should be closed but determining the effect of such closures . 
I hope the Commission will heed the committee 's amendment calling for Community funding which is not dependent on cofinancing to compensate fishermen under these plans . 
Safety is of paramount importance . 
While public aid for modernisation and renewal should not be a bottomless pit , it should be available for improvements to safety . 
A combination of ageing vessels and days-at-sea restrictions could be a lethal combination . 
It is vital that safety be taken into account when measuring the impact of recovery plans and , for that matter , fisheries management in general . 
Mr President , on a point of order on the same issue , there is a distinctly unpleasant odour permeating this building , not just in this Chamber , but outside as well . 
Last month the Quaestors told us that the reason for this smell then was that an animal had died in one of the drains . 
It is high time something was done . 
I welcome Mr Brok 's report , which shows that real progress has been made in the enlargement process . 
Sadly , a 15-year-old girl , Katherine Fish , was killed . 
Those who were less seriously injured have now been flown home to Scotland on a specially chartered plane . 
The people of Scotland were deeply touched by the kindness and decency of these good people , many of whom volunteered to provide help and comfort to the crash victims . 
I hope this House will join with me in thanking sincerely all those who opened their hearts to the courageous pupils who were involved in that accident . 
We wish those who were injured a speedy recovery and send our deepest sympathy to the parents and relatives of Katherine Fish . 
Mr President , we share the concerns about the major delays facing these projects , which have been claimed to be priority projects . 
In connection with some of the amendments adopted in committee , we welcome the granting of candidate countries the right to observe proceedings which concern them and their country . 
We also welcome the acceptance of the compromise solution of the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy regarding energy products . 
Amendments were also accepted on including waterway projects and linking the allocation of funds to the reduction of traffic growth and air pollution . 
We did , however , vote against the report in committee because of a number of outstanding concerns , which we will try to address tomorrow in a series of amendments and requests for split votes . 
These include the demand that in a new post-2006 financial framework more money should be allocated to TENs . 
In connection with penalties or claw-back , our view is that the report should follow the text of the Bradbourn report on TENs and demand that if projects are not substantially complete after 15 years , they should be taken off the list . 
Finally , I have a strong concern that the reference to the use of private capital could be claimed to be , or inferred to be , an obligation to use private capital . 
We will be asking for a split vote in order to isolate these words , to prevent such an inference . 
Mr President , for the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , the key test of Seville was the agreement on immigration and asylum which elevated discussion beyond the search for cheap newspaper headlines and into the core of the challenge . 
A casual reader of the newspapers in the run-up to Seville might have believed that the Prime Minister of Spain was playing Don José to Tony Blair 's Carmen in a passionate but deadly delusion about using development aid as a weapon in the crackdown on illegal migrants . 
We , therefore , welcome the success of Prime Minister Verhofstadt and others in redressing the balance of the European Council 's draft conclusions . 
In particular we are pleased that the Council recalled the importance of economic cooperation , free trade , development aid and conflict prevention in tackling the causes of illegal immigration . 
I applaud the Council 's emphasis on providing incentives to developing countries to cooperate in the management of migration flows rather than on suspending development aid for non-cooperation . 
However , rather than simply setting new targets for achieving progress on immigration and asylum , Heads of State and Government would do better to stop clogging up the decision-making process with national initiatives and to back Commission proposals under the Community method . 
That means using qualified majority voting to ensure that decisions can be taken . 
Concerning the proposals for reform of the proceedings of the Council , it is all very well for Heads of State and Government to talk about introducing greater transparency into the workings of the Council . 
However , this will not be achieved merely by allowing cameras into the room for a ritual round-table debate and for the votes . 
We need to achieve real transparency by giving access to Council documents on the Internet , from when they are first discussed by officials right up to ministerial level . 
It is disgraceful that Council officials in the Secretariat are refusing to make Room documents and unnumbered documents publicly available . 
A rationalisation of the number of Councils is no doubt called for , but it would be far better for this to be done in conjunction - as the President of the Commission said - with similar moves in Parliament and in the Commission so that lines of accountability and responsibility are clear . 
I am also concerned that the abolition of the Development Council could be seen as a downgrading of the Union 's role in development assistance , which must not be allowed to happen . 
Following the Barcelona Summit , I warned in this Chamber of the danger of a credibility gap opening up if the ambitious targets set for economic reform were not implemented . 
In particular I called for progress to be made towards an integrated financial services market . 
I , therefore , warmly congratulate the Spanish Presidency on securing a deal on the pensions directive - which had been blocked in Council since July of last year - as well as agreement on the market abuse directive , because behind the sound and fury over illegal immigration it is steady progress on technical but vital issues such as these which show the worth of a presidency . 
Mr President , biotechnology is at the heart of the Lisbon process to make Europe the world 's most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy . 
In line with this ambition , biotech is top priority in the sixth framework research programme which we approved only recently . 
Advances in crop biotechnology promise major benefits for our environment and consumers . 
If , for a moment , we can give thought to the interests of others , they will be of incalculable benefit to those who are hungry or suffer blindness and disease in the third world . 
It is therefore shameful that we bow down to the destructive agenda of Friends of the Earth and Greenpeace , who are intent on bamboozling the public with unjustified scare stories . 
Clearly , their purpose is to prevent all advance in this area of great scientific promise , for that is what these present texts from the Trakatellis and Scheele reports would mean . 
The Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy understood these implications for industry , our farmers , our international trade relations , our scientific community and , yes , for our consumers . 
It voted for a GM free and virtually GM-free labelling system which would be readily workable and much less bureaucratic and more consistent with consumer wishes for simple and straightforward information - much more straightforward than the present Commission proposal , let alone the absurd texts before us . 
Certain Member States also would much prefer this solution . 
I ask the Commission to bear in mind , when it comes to codecision , that this option has support in Parliament . 
If it genuinely stands by its biotechnology action plan , it should give this option more consideration . 
Indeed , I call on the Commission this afternoon to state that this option could still be open . 
Mr President , I was about to welcome my parents to the Chamber but as I was told I had to come back at 9 p.m. , I do not know if they have made it back in yet . 
If they did not know much about GMOs before 3.45 p.m. they certainly know much more about them now . 
This year the issue of GMs is hotly topical and controversial . 
Crop trials are presently being conducted in Scotland . 
One is presently under way in a small village in Munlochy , in the Black Isle , where the local community has even kept vigil at the site of an extensive trial . 
There is no getting away from this issue . 
Food scares over the past decade have meant that consumers want to be sure that what they are eating is safe . 
How do we reassure people over this issue ? 
How do we make the waves - as Mrs Scheele said - on issues like these ? 
Labels and traceability are one answer . 
The only way to gain the confidence of consumers is to offer a totally traceable , transparent and reliable information system . 
Traceability puts the burden of proof on the producer . 
Whether the threshold is 1 % or 0.5 % , if practicable , these are a step forward . 
On the subject of labelling , people want as much information as is possible . 
This has to rest on quality information . 
There is a lot of potential there , but it can also mislead consumers because of accidental contamination . 
Rules for GM-free labelling exist in Germany , Austria and the Netherlands , but food producers can not guarantee that products are completely GM free . 
These products should not become a costly niche market . 
Mrs Scheele 's comment on the subject is welcome . 
We can not afford to let this opportunity to have proper , practical traceability and labelling of GMs pass us by . 
As an article in today 's Guardian says , we are at a crossroads . 
The vote tomorrow will determine the future of genetically modified food in Europe . 
Mr President , I should like to ask a bit more about this forum . 
How big is it ? 
How often will it meet ? 
Where will it meet ? 
How much will it cost ? 
Can you fill out the detail ? 
The Wall Street Journal came to the conclusion that the shift by Mr Bush to declare these steel tariffs in March , followed by his agricultural subsidies and his protectionism on timber with Canada , was the turning-point from being a free-trade regime to a protectionist , America-first regime . 
Would you think this is the case or are your friend , Mr Zoellick , and Mr Bush still genuinely free trade ? 
I have raised it with the rapporteur and he is in agreement with this . 
Mr President , I did not want to speak until the vote on the second part had been taken . 
I would like to point out that in the second part there is a technical error in the English version . 
Mr President , it was a matter of great satisfaction to us all that the Medina Ortega report was adopted by such a decisive majority . 
It really is an important issue for many of our constituents to regulate better the timeshare industry and related activities . 
Many people in the European Union - and certainly many of my own constituents - have had serious complaints about fraudulent behaviour and mistreatment at the hands of sharks operating in this market . 
The real problem is the regulation of fraudulent behaviour and making sure that people in particularly vulnerable situations are adequately protected against it . 
The risk of sectoral legislation about one particular kind of fraud is that you simply regulate one part and leave on the margins new forms of fraud , which is unregulated or left under only general criminal law regulation . 
It will be important for the Commission to study that carefully and bring forward stronger proposals to us . 
The Commission must step up its efforts to ensure a level playing field with greater cooperation between the stakeholders . 
Fishermen must be involved in framing and enforcing the rules within a system of zonal management , a system that will make these rules more acceptable and enforcement more effective . 
For effective monitoring and control , there must adequate budgetary and human resources . 
A fundamental concern in relation to the Commission 's proposals on the reform of the CFP is the proposal to open access to the North Sea and leave a sea area with severely depleted fish stocks managed purely by virtue of the TACs and quotas regime . 
Without committed investment in control and monitoring , the North Sea will be a potential free-for-all , which could decimate stocks further and kill off fragile fisheries-dependent communities . 
I therefore urge the Commission to take these concerns on board and ensure that there is a level playing field . 
Under no circumstances open up the North Sea when clearly the existing enforcement system is neither perceived as , nor proven to be , fair or sufficiently funded to ensure illegal fisheries are stamped out . 
Mr President , the fact that Parliament views this report with great seriousness can be gauged from the two major hearings which have been held during the past year : one by ECOSOC and one by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development . 
EU self-sufficiency in plant proteins has fallen to 23 % , placing the Community in a position of great vulnerability . 
We now have an enormous reliance on imported proteins from outside the EU . 
Clearly such heavy reliance on sources outside our control makes the EU vulnerable to sudden price rises , climate change or harvest failures in these countries , almost placing our livestock sector in the same position as our heavy industry once was at the time of the oil crisis . 
We must implement a plan which would encourage the production of rape seed , pulses , sunflower and soya and provide major economic benefits , not only to the accession states , but to ourselves , through greater self-sufficiency . 
In the existing Member States and the accession states , we also anticipate a continuing rise in meat consumption which will in turn lead to a demand from livestock producers for ever greater quantities of protein feed . 
So it is against this background that I have set out in my report to look for ways of encouraging more self-reliance within the EU . 
Amongst many recommendations , I have suggested various ways of encouraging an increase in plant protein production by investing more in research into and development of new and improved plant varieties . 
I have also called for rotational aid payments to farmers to encourage the production of plant proteins in the cereal crop cycle and for the growing of protein crops , grain legumes and oil seeds on set-aside land . 
I have called for a safety net or income insurance scheme for producers of oil seed and protein crops . 
I urge Commissioner Byrne to think again on this issue and to lift the ban , which is affecting a significant number of jobs in the fish processing and livestock feed sector . 
I believe there is great potential in developing the non-food sector . 
The production of oil-bearing plants for biofuels such as methylester and for biolubricants and biodegradable solvents is important in the concept of this debate because oil cake is produced as a valuable by-product . 
Finally , I fear that the mid-term review of the CAP since the Agriculture Committee dealt with my report may have significantly altered the thrust of some of these recommendations . 
I would be interested in hearing how Commissioner Byrne and Commissioner Fischler think the mid-term review will affect this position . 
Mr President , this is an important piece of legislation which will really help to improve and consolidate the single market by ensuring that we do not have excessive cross-border differences about sales promotion rules . 
It is justifiably a regulation because it simply removes certain sorts of bans on sales promotions while leaving it to the states to pursue their own particular legal , economic and political preference in other cases . 
So in this sense it is an important contribution to the consolidation of the single market and my group will support it in much the same spirit and also support much the same amendments as Mrs McCarthy has just done on behalf of the PSE . 
Indeed some of the amendments make it absolutely clear that we want to see the maximum liberty of sales promotions that is consistent with proper consumer protection laws . 
Secondly , there is a degree of concern about the fate of small businesses faced with large retail organisations whose forms of sales promotion may be thought to encourage the closing down of the corner shop and the aggrandisation of the supermarket . 
We are certainly against that and we underline in the amendments we support and in those we supported in committee that the sales promotion laws must be seen to be wholly in conformity with competition law and with the avoidance of abuse of dominant position in markets . 
Given these safeguards , including the safeguards for minors , my group will with great goodwill vote for this measure today . 
Mr President , Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein poses a real threat . 
He has used weapons of mass destruction in the past to oppress his own people and in seeking to draw Israel into a wider Middle East war . 
The international community has a responsibility to stop Iraq developing weapons of mass destruction . 
Yet the consequences of war are potentially so serious that , for my group , it should be only a last resort . 
Avoiding war does not mean letting Saddam Hussein off the hook . 
Those who urge America not to launch a pre-emptive strike against Iraq are not appeasers , as Donald Rumsfeld implies when he compares George W. Bush to Winston Churchill . 
To my mind that comparison is more absurd than Dan Quayle comparing himself to John F. Kennedy . 
If I may paraphrase Senator Lloyd Benson I would say ` Donald , George W. Bush ai n't no Winston Churchill ' ! 
The real lesson of history is this : Churchill correctly identified the Nazi threat at an early stage but when he acted it was not unilaterally and pre-emptively . 
Churchill did not bomb Berlin and try to overthrow the Nazi regime based on his suspicions of Hitler ; he acted in concert with his allies when it was clear that he had right on his side . 
For the ELDR Group the issue today is about getting United Nations weapons inspectors back into Iraq , not about George W. Bush settling an old family score with Saddam Hussein . 
The Iraqi Government must comply with UN resolutions and must let weapons inspectors back in unconditionally . 
Once in , those inspectors must be allowed to go wherever they want , whenever they want . 
Only if Iraq refuses to readmit inspectors , if it unreasonably obstructs their work or if those inspectors find evidence of Iraq developing weapons of mass destruction would the international community be justified in taking further action . 
European governments must make clear their support for UN-backed military action in those circumstances . 
If it comes to war it must be the international community that acts together , not the United States unilaterally . 
A UN resolution needs to be approved setting a deadline for Iraqi compliance . 
A broad international coalition must be built and must include Arab countries if we are to convince world opinion that we are not seeking a clash of civilisations . 
Frankly , as the Commissioner said , our task would be a lot easier if the US showed the same focus on resolving the crisis in the Middle East , as it does on removing Saddam Hussein . 
We also need to think seriously about how to rebuild stability in the region after any strike . 
The international coalition , including America , must commit resources to nation-building . 
Unless we rebuild its economy and society and help to develop viable political institutions , an Iraq devastated by war would risk imploding and posing an even greater danger to the stability of the region . 
We can not postpone the debate much longer by claiming that no decisions are imminent . 
I would say this to the President-in-Office of the Council : Mr Haarder , it is no good saying the European Union 's position is clear while referring to a statement of 20 May . 
The Union 's position is as clear as mud . 
If it were clear , Ambassador Burghardt in Washington would not lament how Member States are jealously guarding their own access to the American Administration rather than acting as a common front . 
Just as at the UN Summit in Johannesburg , the European Union will have influence only if it acts as a United States of Europe . 
That is your job . 
Consensus needs to be built about how to tackle the threat , evidence of weapons of mass destruction needs to be published and - most importantly of all - any strike needs to be backed by international law and the moral authority of the international community . 
The world can not afford the instability which would come from a unilateral and pre-emptive military adventure in Iraq . 
Mr President , I know that the President-in-Office , a highly respected former colleague in this House , will take back our views to the General Affairs Council . 
There may be no consensus among the Member States , but there is broad consensus in this House . 
Since the end of the Gulf War , our strategy has been one of containment and deterrence . 
To change that strategy , we need compelling evidence that our objectives in the regions would be better served by military strikes . 
Even with such evidence , military action should not be undertaken without clear and realistic political objectives and a commitment to finance and administer the necessary reconstruction . 
To win a war against terrorism in one country , you need broad consensus of support in that country . 
To win a war against terror across borders , we need to build a consensus across borders . 
The Council must unite , either to agree such objectives , to make such a commitment , to build such a consensus , or to rein in the declared ambitions of the United States . 
Mr President-in-Office , an opinion poll by the German Marshall Fund and the Council on Foreign Relations shows that two European citizens in three support the Union acting in this way . 
We in this debate are urging you to seize the initiative . 
My question follows that one . 
You say it is a precondition within the time set . 
Is that the 2004 time-limit , meaning that it will still be possible to have enlargement beyond 2004 without the Nice Treaty , perhaps under the system suggested by Mr Sjöstedt in this question ? 
Following up Mr Titley 's point , could I ask whether the Council would look seriously at the question of critically considering methodologies of impact assessment ? 
In the years when I had something to do with this in an academic capacity , it was notorious that it was extremely difficult within the sociology of law to find reliable ways of assessing the impact of legislation which was in force . 
Predicting the impact of legislation which is going to come into force is yet more difficult . 
Does the President-in-Office agree with me that it would be wise for the Council to look into issues of methodology before we embark on expensive projects of this kind ? 
I totally agree with you that this House should always be delighted when the Council as such pays attention to our reports . 
However , the point to which I was drawing attention is that a subset of Council , the Pesca Group , is said to have held a meeting in which it discussed drafts of reports to this Parliament which have not yet been seen by the committee ; in other words , that they have been `` cooking up '' reports ahead of their being seen by the committee . 
If true , that would be a grave infringement of the rights and privileges of this House and a breach , in effect , of Rule 2 of our Rules of Procedure . 
I wish to lodge a protest about that and suggest that it be taken up with the Presidency of the Council and with the chairman of our own Committee on Fisheries . 
Mr President , I much regret that the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy did not deliver an opinion on this subject . 
Our coordinators were led to believe that there would be insufficient time to prepare an opinion before the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy finalised its report . 
In fact , this process took quite a lot longer than originally planned and there would have been sufficient time for the Committee on Industry to have given an opinion . 
An opinion from that committee ought to have been regarded as essential - in fact it is arguable that the Industry Committee should have been the committee responsible for this report . 
This proposal will have a substantial impact on the European Union 's biotechnology industry , on the EU 's research programme and , in particular , on the priorities of the Sixth Framework Programme for Research . 
It also impacts on our trade in GMOs and in genetically modified research material with both developed and less-developed countries . 
It is essential that in our vote today we radically change the direction of this report . 
I am only sorry that , coming late to this matter as I did , there was insufficient time to introduce all the changes and separate votes I would have liked . 
Our scientists will go the same way as the research investment . 
Have the Commissioner and the rapporteur any concept of the damage this is likely to do ? 
Did they give any consideration to the ambition expressed at Lisbon for Europe to be the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy in the world ? 
This proposal does not restrict imports into the EU of GMOs for contained research , but exports of public and private GM research material to third countries will be subject to yet further and disproportionate regulation . 
This proposal runs diametrically contrary to the EU 's life science and biotechnology action plan . 
Was there any coordination or consultation with the Commissioner for Research and the Council of Ministers for Research ? 
It is quite appropriate that the Commission should propose , and Parliament and the Council approve , the requirements of the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety , but we should go no further . 
If we do , we will jeopardise our life science base for the future , our scientific community , the whole Lisbon strategy and Europe 's future as a dynamic knowledge-based economic power in the world . 
I call on Parliament to vote overwhelmingly against Mr Sjöstedt 's report in all its critical aspects and , in particular , to support Amendments 50 and 51 , which will at least mitigate the extent of the damage this proposal and report are likely to cause . 
Mr President , might I draw attention to Item 12 of the Minutes , dealing with one-minute speeches on matters of political importance . 
My name appears twice in that list , but Members present will recall that I specifically made a point of order , concerning rule 2 of our Rules of Procedure . 
I therefore think that this should have been recorded as a point of order , while the point that I was making should be recorded in the Minutes . 
On behalf of the Committee Legal Affairs and the Single Market , I want to draw attention to those items affecting the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance . 
The EU succeeds in being a Union under law only to the extent that it has an effective set of judicial tribunals . 
Because we are a polyglot , multilingual union , there must be speedy , clear and accurate translation of the courts ' judgments into all the languages of the European Union in order that citizens and their legal advisers throughout the European Union are up-to-date on the law of this Union and how it is properly interpreted . 
If we do not reinstate the estimates that the Court of Justice itself made , we will fail more and more often . 
There are very specific points : we need referendaires in the Court of First Instance because the European Union has failed to fill vacancies for judges , we need upgraded posts and we need improved translation services . 
That is what the amendments by the Legal Affairs Committee amount to . 
Mr President , on a point of order , on Monday I raised a point of order about Rule 2 and yesterday had the Minutes corrected to indicate the exact purport of that point . 
In my remarks on Monday I suggested that there was a risk of a certain meeting of Pesca Ministers having been intended to interfere with the independence of action of Parliament . 
Mr Jové Peres was one of the rapporteurs in question and he made a statement this morning . 
I fully accept what he said and if I caused him embarrassment I would like to apologise . 
Mr President , on behalf of my group I should like to say I was disappointed to see that Amendment 6 from the Committee went through . 
This whole directive was really about cross-border legal aid . 
To take the whole cross-border element out , and to try and look at the whole question of harmonising legal aid throughout the European Union , is - in my opinion and that of my Group - bound to lead to one hell of a muddle . 
If we had stuck to the Liberal amendment and had concentrated solely on cross-border legal aid cases , then I think we could have had a workable document in front of us today . 
Unfortunately we do not . 
However , that being said , we did ultimately vote for the directive . 
There are other parts in it which we feel we can support , and we leave the Council of Ministers , hopefully , to sort out the bits that unfortunately went through . 
Madam President , the establishment of the ICC marks a huge step forward in enforcing , at a global level , the principle of the rule of law which is fundamental to all liberal democracies . 
While ad hoc tribunals , such as those for Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia , are doing invaluable work , there is no substitute for a permanent court with the mandate and legitimacy to prosecute criminals wherever they may hide . 
We need only look at Croatia 's refusal to hand over General Bobetko to The Hague on the grounds that Croatia was not the aggressor , to see the problems which can arise . 
In negotiations on the Rome Statute , Europe bent over backwards to achieve an outcome which would accommodate American concerns . 
It is therefore a matter of deep regret to Liberal Democrats in this House that a number of countries have refused to sign the Rome Statute for the ICC . 
These countries include Iran , Iraq , North Korea and the United States . 
If we follow the old adage ` you will be judged by the company you keep ' , what message does the USA 's presence in this group of refusniks send to the world ? 
Especially when taken in conjunction with America 's disavowal of the Kyoto protocol , the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child , and the Biological Weapons Convention . 
It is bad enough that the USA is refusing to ratify the Rome Statute , but to try to strangle it at birth by reaching bilateral agreements with countries such as Israel and Romania in order to prevent its nationals being surrendered to the ICC is terrible . 
UN Security Council Resolution 1422 also sets a dangerous precedent and should not be renewed next July . 
The European Union should do its utmost to avoid undermining the ICC before it has even begun its work . 
I therefore urge the President-in-Office of the Council to recognise the storm-clouds gathering over this issue and to pull the EU Member States together under one umbrella . 
In an age of instability it is understandable that the EU wishes to avoid a breakdown in transatlantic relations , but any agreement with the USA must be supported by all EU countries and be consistent with the Rome Statute . 
Another failure on our part to show unity would further undermine the EU 's credibility in foreign affairs . 
We must get our own house in order . 
The countries wishing to join us , including the Czech Republic , Lithuania and Malta , must understand that the values the ICC represents are fundamental to the European Union , and that speedy ratification of the Rome Statute would prevent any delay in their accession . 
By acting together , Europe can contribute greatly to making the ICC work , and thereby reassure the USA that the Court is serious and poses no threat to their law-abiding nationals . 
We must work to bring the Americans on board at a later date . 
Neither government must forget that we are accountable to the court of world public opinion . 
In conclusion , Madam President , the ICC is a symbol of the world for which we strive - a world in which human rights and international law will be upheld everywhere , and most of all , a world in which no shelter will be given to those guilty of the vilest crimes . 
Let us work together to enable the court to get off to a flying start when it becomes operational in January . 
Madam President , I too apologise to the President-in-Office and the Commissioner , but I must leave the debates , since I must chair a meeting of my party . 
Mr President , many of us never thought we would witness in our lifetimes the fall of the Berlin Wall . 
It is worth reminding ourselves of the 13 long years this process has taken as the siren voices of the sceptics seek to dash enlargement on the rocks . 
In a previous debate , I described enlargement as a process of continuous assessment , not a one-off exam . 
I thank Mr Prodi for presenting today the Commission 's assessment of the readiness of the applicant states to join the European Union which marks those countries ' completion of a major assignment in that process . 
They are now approaching the final examination at the Copenhagen Summit . 
The prospects look good although they still have some hard work to do in the months ahead if they are to make the grade . 
The Liberal Democrat Group has always sought to apply the Copenhagen criteria and the timetable , not to elevate one above the other . 
We , therefore , welcome the Commission 's conclusion that the ten applicant states will be ready to join the European Union by 2004 , but that monitoring of their preparations will continue . 
A reinforced monitoring system is necessary because the overview provided by the Commission clearly shows that there are deficiencies in the readiness of those applicant countries and we should be open about this . 
If we are to convince our own people of the case for enlargement , it must be clear that we are not sweeping problems under the carpet . 
Openness about those problems and the measures taken to tackle them will make us better able to reassure the doubters . 
I therefore call on the Commission to transmit to Parliament all the regular enlargement reports which it will make to Council . 
If we await the comprehensive monitoring report six months before enlargement , the Commission may have no alternative but to impose safeguards since the nuclear option of suspending enlargement may not be viable . 
I hope that the threat of those safeguards will be sufficient to ensure that they are not used . 
Neither should we forget , however , that it is not only our own voters who have to be convinced . 
There are referenda to be won in the applicant states . 
Critics in those countries who compare the European Union to the old Soviet Union are confusing a jacket with a straightjacket . 
Yet we must show those countries that they will benefit from enlargement from year one . 
This means a generous financial settlement which precludes them becoming net contributors in the short term . 
By introducing a secession clause in a new constitutional treaty , we would also assuage any fears that to join the European Union is to throw away the keys to freedom . 
My group is deeply worried that corruption remains widespread and that much work must be done to implement the acquis in justice and home affairs . 
We must be firm on the failings of the candidate countries , yet we must recognise that the report before us today is only a progress report . 
My own country struggled to meet the criteria 15 months before accession . 
Thirty years later , some might say that it is still struggling . 
The Liberal Group welcomes the date of 2007 along with a roadmap for Bulgaria and Romania . 
The steps which they need to take must be clearly outlined by the Commission in time for Copenhagen , so that they are clear on what needs to be done . 
The recent reforms undertaken by the Turkish Government represent a real breakthrough and , while no date can be set for Turkey 's accession until the political criteria are met , we will watch with interest the implementation of these reforms . 
Turkey must be offered a pre-accession strategy accompanied by more financial support and a friendlier political environment . 
We must show the world that we are not an elite Christian club . 
The question of Cyprus will also have to be resolved to smooth the way for Turkey 's entry . 
Here we look to Greece and Turkey to help broker an agreement before the Copenhagen Summit . 
The prospect of the whole of Cyprus joining the EU would start the Greek Presidency on a positive note which we hope would conclude , in Thessaloniki , with a summit symbolising reconciliation . 
In conclusion , the enlargement marathon is nearing the finish line . 
Despite the exertions thus far , the participants must be prepared for a sprint finish . 
Once they cross the line in Copenhagen , they will have little time to celebrate , the training for the next marathon begins - the marathon of meeting the acquis communautaire and achieving democratic endorsement of the enlargement process . 
I am privileged to present this report on behalf of my colleague from the Fisheries Committee , Michael Holmes . 
Members may be aware that Mr Holmes recently underwent major surgery and I am sure that the House will join me in wishing him a speedy recovery . 
Firstly , I congratulate Mr Holmes on his excellent work in compiling this report . 
We are dealing with this issue against a background of collapsing fish stocks throughout the European Union . 
Indeed , he expressed the view that the EU should achieve these targets long before that date and he pledged decisive action against illegal and unregulated fisheries practices . 
That is why I find it bizarre and even astonishing that the Commission agreed to a Council compromise last June which effectively paves the way for a total allowable catches ( TACs ) and quotas to be applied to deepwater stocks . 
Although this was judged by Mr Arias Cañete , the Spanish President-in-Office of the Council at that time , to be one of the highlights of the Spanish Presidency , it requires closer examination . 
However , we know that these fish live at great depths - over 1 200 metres - and we know that they are slow-maturing , not reaching breeding age until they are at least 25 years old . 
We also know that they have a very low reproductive capacity , and that there are around 87 different species of fish swimming together at these great depths , of which only around eight are edible or marketable . 
As a result , we know that fishermen in these waters regularly dump around 90 % of all the fish they catch , dead , back into the sea . 
Out of every 100 tonnes of fish caught , 90 tonnes are being thrown back dead into the water . 
Applying TACs and quotas to these deepwater stocks for the first time , as Mr Holmes points out forcefully in his report , will invite disaster . 
TACs and quotas are the root cause of the two million tonnes of good , fresh fish which are currently dumped dead into the sea every year in the EU . 
TACs and quotas only control what is landed , they do not control what is caught . 
If this House votes tomorrow for the application of TACs and quotas to these deepwater stocks , then I can predict with some confidence that this valuable fishery will be destroyed perhaps within as little as five years . 
As the Holmes report points out , the only way to regulate this fishery in a sustainable way is by effort limitation , by limiting the number of days during which a vessel may put to sea . 
If a fishing boat is not at sea , then it is not fishing and if it is not fishing , then the fish are not being caught . 
This is the only logical and realistic approach to achieving a sustainable deepwater fishery . 
That is why this is also the approach favoured by the scientists and by the fishing communities on whose future the survival of these stocks depends . 
Furthermore , it is essential that we apply strict controls to the type of gear being used in these deepwater fisheries . 
Gill nets are strung out at huge depths on the sea bed , sometimes stretching for up to 100 kilometres , and are then left anchored for days at a time while the parent fishing vessel returns to port . 
These nets should be banned . 
Similarly , rock hoppers which bounce across obstacles on the seabed to avoid nets becoming snagged can cause enormous damage to delicate corals and sea mounts which are an essential part of the marine ecosystem . 
We can not allow such unsustainable practices to continue unchecked . 
I therefore urge this House to accept the amended proposals recommended by Mr Holmes in his report and I commend the report to the House . 
Mr President , without verifiable , up-to-date independent scientific advice it is impossible to establish a TAC regime . 
How , then , could the Commission support such a regime ? 
How could the Council endorse such a scheme in June 2002 without proper consultation with the industry and the North East Atlantic Fisheries Council being left out of the picture ? 
The Commission has a lot to answer for in this , but the main appeal that I make at this stage is not for recrimination but for the proposal to be reconsidered . 
If conservation of stocks is to be achieved , we must regulate deep-sea fisheries under a regime based on effort limitation . 
We must take into account firstly that TACs will increase mortality through discards of the species most in the need of protection , and secondly , that safety could be put at risk as vessels with inadequate quota but a deficit in fishing days would be pressurised to fish under perilous conditions . 
I urge this House and also the Commission to support the amendments in the name of the ELDR Group and those in my name which are signed by various members of the four largest groups in this House . 
Finally , the social and economic implications of any final proposal must be fully assessed and measured for compensation provided where appropriate and without discrimination between fishermen in different Member States . 
Mr President , Commission President Mr Prodi described the Stability and Growth Pact last week as ` stupid , like all decisions which are rigid ' . 
Commissioner Lamy is also on record as having described the pact as ` medieval ' . 
Aside from the questionable wisdom of using such strong language , especially to a newspaper from the country which is doing the most damage to what remains of the credibility of the Stability and Growth Pact , one begins to wonder whether this is part of an orchestrated campaign . 
My question to the Commission President is this : in making your remarks to Le Monde - and you have said that you stand by every word - was it your intention to launch a debate on how to reform the Stability and Growth Pact ? 
If so , that is a debate we welcome , but surely a debate which would better have been conducted some months ago . 
Had the Commission acted more firmly then , using the licence that we gave you when we invested you , its own authority and that of the Stability and Growth Pact might have suffered less damage . 
In the current circumstances , no change is clearly not an option , but two principles must guide us . 
The first is that a well-run economy and a stable currency require taxes and spending to be in balance over the course of the business cycle . 
The second is that the rules are the same for all countries , large or small . 
Those principles are at the heart of the Stability and Growth Pact and my group expects them to be the starting point for any reform . 
If today marks the beginning of a debate on how to improve and strengthen the Pact , what reforms do we need to give it renewed credibility ? 
First of all let us be clear on what we should not do . 
We should not call into question the 3 % limit for deficits as we hit hard economic times . 
If countries do not pay off their debts , then we will all pay the price in higher interest rates and a weaker currency . 
The Liberal Group agrees with Mr Prodi that the Stability and Growth Pact must be applied intelligently . 
That is why we supported the Commission 's decision to allow two more years for countries to return their budgets to balance , because growth had been slower than expected . 
But we must not forget that postponement to 2006 came with strings attached in the form of a requirement to reduce structural deficits by 0.5 % year on year . 
On that analysis , any intelligent interpretation would clearly conclude that France 's recent budget makes no effort to reduce its structural deficit and is clearly in breach of the Stability and Growth Pact . 
When the Commission brings forward a proposal for such an early warning , then it will help to restore credibility to the Pact . 
The Liberal Group agrees with you , Mr Prodi , that the Stability and Growth Pact needs authority behind it to apply it . 
That is why we call for the Commission to have the power to issue early warnings against countries which are breaching the rules , whether Finance Ministers agree or not . 
Only if the Pact has a strong policeman can Member States be forced into taking corrective action while they can afford to . 
The end point of reform must be a strengthened Stability and Growth Pact which punishes fiscal largesse and rewards countries which run their budgets responsibly . 
Judging by the warm welcome which Francis Mer , the French finance minister , gave to your remarks in that interview , I fear that France will feel empowered to flout the rules . 
If you wish to have the authority to enforce the Stability and Growth Pact , then you must earn that authority by acting promptly against France and any other countries which might be tempted to follow their example . 
Mr President , I would like to thank the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs for their work . 
Therefore , on the debate on the centralised procedure , I believe we must have flexibility . 
On the renewal of authorisation , I oppose the Commission 's proposal to remove five-year renewal of marketing authorisation and rely on enhanced pharmaco-vigilance to ensure product safety and , indeed , exclusivity . 
I think the compromise which has been reached is a fair one . 
I am delighted that the Committee on the Environment has rejected direct consumer advertising . 
We must be very clear that we all want patients to be informed . 
We all want patients to make informed decisions - no one can argue with this . 
But we can not have what happens in the US , where the ten most advertised drugs are the ten best selling drugs . 
This is where the amendments adopted in committee requesting a report and the question of how information to patients is used and enhanced are so important . 
Information to patients from the industry varies from excellent approaches and partnership with patients to situations where some patient organisations are being accused of being mere fronts for the industry . 
We have an opportunity in the review to do this , to improve research , to secure jobs , to improve availability of products to patients and improve information given to patients . 
It is an exciting time , and I look forward to the review returning for second reading . 
Mr President , of course we all want health and safety at work , employers , workers and shareholders . 
What good is it if we have health and safety but no work ? 
There is the problem and there is the challenge . 
And it is not over yet . 
Still there are unacceptable accidents on the farm and on the factory floor . 
Only last month on a farm next door to mine in Scotland , the young husband and father of a family died after being caught in a potato-harvesting machine . 
We must do all we can and continue to strive to eliminate all such tragedies . 
Our work and business culture must be a safety culture , but life and work can never be devoid of risk . 
There is no way we could achieve that utopia and still have a working economy , where men and women leave home each day for their workplace and thereby support their families and our economy . 
Be in no doubt that absurdly exaggerated restrictions and red tape will only kill off enterprise and the enterprises to which our constituents resort each day to make their living and provide the prosperity on which we all depend . 
Mr Hughes ' report goes far too far . 
Its litany of exaggerated good intentions and its demand for yet more legislation risk the future of Europe 's businesses , of our prosperity and our jobs . 
Mr President , if the Treaty had been rejected by your countrymen , this week 's Council would have been marred by recrimination and disarray . 
Due in no small part to your efforts , Ireland 's ` yes ' vote has put us back on track for Europe to be reunited in 2004 . 
The decisions that remain will not be easy . 
As our esteemed former colleague the President-in-Office has said , decisions involving money rarely are . 
But the Heads of State and Government must not allow themselves to flunk this historic opportunity by fighting over how to pay the bill . 
My group believes that enlargement can be financed under the financial arrangements agreed in Berlin . 
Some shifting between the different headings should be possible , within the overall limits . 
The final package must guarantee that new Member States will not be net contributors before 2007 . 
Otherwise we will feed resentment and face the risk of more cliff-hanger referenda in the aspirant countries . 
Inevitably , the major area of disagreement is the common agricultural policy . 
While the Liberal Group does not regards CAP reform as a precondition for enlargement , it is clear that significant reform of our farm policies is essential to the success of enlargement and also for other reasons . 
I hear that President Chirac expects the United Kingdom to bring its budget rebate into play , while he refuses to countenance reform of his farm policies before 2006 . 
We support the Commission 's proposals to phase in income support to farmers for the new Member States , but we also expect all existing Member States to commit themselves to far-reaching reform of the CAP , as proposed in the mid-term review . 
The second major area of concern is the readiness of the applicant states to live within the disciplines of the single market and respect the European Union 's values . 
We share the concern expressed in the Commission 's progress report about corruption in a number of these countries and the need for progress in implementing EU legislation , particularly in the field of justice and home affairs . 
That is why it is right that there should be a reinforced monitoring system to ensure that countries fulfil their commitments . 
The President of the Commission called for enthusiasm and intelligence . 
Commissioner Verheugen 's approach has demonstrated the latter , but a touch more enthusiasm in the Council for enlargement and for the new Europe it heralds would not go amiss . 
Mr President , I asked at the very last minute to give an explanation of vote on both the Müller and Grossetête reports . 
We supported Amendment 78 , since it is pro-generic in principle . 
It would ideally refer to line extension rather than abridged application , but the principle allows for the sale of generics in more than one country without repeating application procedures . 
In the Grossetête report , on Amendment 63 , we voted to be consistent with our approach in committee . 
On the second part of Amendment 113 , it was put to us that the word advertising was open to misinterpretation . 
Unforeseen circumstances have forced him to return to the UK this evening . 
I would like to stress that this is his report , and I thank him for his work and his willingness to cooperate with other parties . 
It is perhaps appropriate that Mr Khanbhai drew up this report , because he was born in Tanzania , where his family have lived for 170 years . 
He and I have travelled extensively in rural Africa and we share many views on the eradication of poverty in developing countries . 
It is therefore a pleasure to stand in for him today . 
It is unacceptable that even today , more than one billion people are living on less than a dollar a day in rural areas of developing countries . 
They have no access to water , sanitation , electricity , health services or education . 
The poor are hungry , have no jobs , and fear disease . 
More than 40 years of international aid have not eliminated poverty . 
Many of these poor countries have huge debts , and their people are worse off than they were 25 years ago when Lomé assistance started . 
The EU is the largest donor in the world . 
Why have we not identified the country-specific problems , so that we can focus our aid on attacking the causes of poverty ? 
I have been travelling in the ACP countries for over 20 years . 
The major cause of poverty is the lack of investment in rural areas . 
We need to invest in helping the rural population to have a stake in their local economies . 
A ` bottom-up ' approach is the only way to regenerate rural areas . 
Asian countries like China , India and Bangladesh were food-deficient and net importers 20 years ago . 
Subsidies to farmers , selecting appropriate seed , irrigation , micro-finance for small farmers , establishing food cooperatives and other rural investments transformed the agricultures of these countries . 
Today , they grow enough food for their huge populations and have surplus for exports . 
There must be a lesson here . 
The EU and the US offer substantial subsidies to their farmers . 
Without such subsidies , there would be no economic prosperity in countries like Spain , Portugal , Ireland , Italy and France , which have all benefited from European subsidies . 
Without investment in Europe 's rural infrastructure , the EU would not function as it does today . 
A decade of famine and malnutrition has precipitated disease , fear , social tension and civil war in many poor countries . 
The EU needs to encourage land reform , the efficient and fair utilisation of water resources and the transfer of technology for the rural populations of poor countries . 
We need to teach them to grow their own food , create their own employment and sustain their own economies . 
The poor do not wish to beg for life ; they value their self-respect and dignity in the same way as we do . 
I agree with Mr Khanbhai that this is the spirit within which the EU should reassess its policy on aid . 
Agriculture , agrarian reform and rural economic development should be top priority areas for EU assistance . 
This will help production , employment and the sustainable management of natural resources in developing countries , enabling the poor to be self-reliant and break their dependence on our aid . 
I hope that the House will accept this report . 
Mr Khanbhai has agreed to over 75 per cent of the amendments that have been tabled . 
Mr President , of course the questions and the statistics by our Green colleagues are loaded and selective . 
Can I therefore ask if the Commission agrees that a Eurobarometer survey shows that 75 % of Europeans favour basic research aimed at new technologies which help knowledge to progress ? 
Is it true that , according to Eurobarometer surveys , 48 % of Europeans agree or strongly agree that GM is useful in food production for improved nutrition and for improving shelf life or taste , despite the emotive campaign by the Greens to convince them of the contrary ? 
Not only are these campaigns emotionally charged , they muster distorted and misleading information to support their ultimately untenable and irrational opposition to the new technology of genetically modified crops . 
I wish they would be honest enough to recognise that there are at least some benefits . 
I believe that these actual benefits , not to mention the potential benefits , substantially outweigh any risks . 
Yes , there are always potential risks in any new technology product or process . 
We are challenging the frontiers of knowledge , but we have safeguards in place . 
Not only do they reduce production costs , they also cut back on the use of energy , pesticides and herbicides and reduce CO2 emissions . 
Though their opponents are still grasping at straws , it is clear from experience in America and elsewhere that the environment benefits . 
In Europe we can perhaps afford the luxury of denying ourselves the food productivity benefits which GM crops offer , but do our Green colleagues not consider the interests of their fellow human beings in sub-Saharan Africa or East Asia to whom GM crops will bring nutrition and health benefits and may even help them survive ? 
On the price of food as well as the quality and the variety available to our consumers ? 
Yes , European consumers are entitled to be able to choose what food they buy and eat . 
We must protect our environment as best we can , but we also owe it to our constituents to be frank and honest about the risks and benefits . 
It is accepted that an organic label indicates 95 % organic , i.e. up to 5 % not organic . 
Why make the non-GMO label almost unobtainable by specifying unachievable levels of purity ? 
I could well accept that premise , with the mischievous intention of making non-GMO so rare that no one could afford it . 
Then everyone will be forced to come to terms with the real world , where there will always be the possibility of some adventitious GM content . 
As a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market , I am well aware of the constitutional and practical importance of moving forward with the Statute of Members - even though I would not myself have chosen this particular way of doing it . 
However , I note that on the agenda for that day there are major debates on fisheries - the first for ten years - looking at the fisheries industry of Europe at a critical time . 
Constituents all over Europe will wonder what the European Parliament is thinking and doing about that . 
What the newspapers will tell them is that Parliament delayed discussing it until it had talked about its own pay . 
I hope that if the Conference of Presidents persists with this agenda in this form it will change the order and bring the fisheries matter - which is of utmost importance - before and ahead of the debate on the Statute of Members . 
The reality was much more prosaic . 
Convergence did not happen quite to the extent predicted and the Commission confined itself largely to revising the telecommunications regulation package to take account of new technology . 
Since that time , however , we have witnessed a wave of mergers and take-overs in the media with the emergence of vast conglomerates such as AOL Time Warner , CBS , Viacom and Vivendi Universal . 
Yet the Commission has not explored the idea of cross-media ownership and media concentration in any detail since its 1994 follow-up to the Green Paper on pluralism and media concentration . 
The Commission 's silence on such an important issue seems particularly strange because the European Parliament has been calling for a directive on a level playing field and media pluralism since the 1990s . 
I recognise that regulating the media is a highly sensitive issue . 
The media is not like any other industry as it lies at the heart of our culture , our way of life . 
A diverse and pluralistic media is fundamental to democracy , freedom and cultural diversity . 
But in view of the trend towards media concentration , towards the dominance of certain media conglomerates , my group believes it is high time that we come back to this issue . 
What are the principles which should underlie our approach ? 
First of all we must recognise that a thriving media is the hallmark of a free society . 
If control of the media becomes too narrowly restricted in the hands of a small number of people this poses a danger for democracy . 
The media needs to be sufficiently diverse for all important points of view in society to be effectively presented . 
Otherwise there is a danger that dominant media players can restrict access to information and thereby move public opinion . 
Avoiding media concentration is also important to our economy . 
Some have argued that with the explosion of different types of media , including digital , satellite and cable television , as well as the Internet , monopolistic control is impossible . 
However , many of these different channels of communication are now controlled by the same media conglomerates , which can thereby cross-promote these services and provide incentives or pressure advertisers to buy space or air time in other media they control . 
Last but not least , media concentration has implications for our cultural diversity . 
A Europe in which the media is dominated by a few major players risks being one in which certain regions , cultures and minority groups are granted less access to the media . 
A diverse media is likely to result in more home-grown original content , whereas large media groups may not resist the temptation to fill their air time with cheap imported programmes and repeats . 
For the ELDR Group there is a clear case to look again at this issue . 
My questions to the Commission today are : what action does the Commission propose to take ? 
If the Commissioner takes the view , as I suspect he may , that there is no legal basis for action , I would remind him of the articles of the Treaty governing the single market . 
I would remind him too that Article 11 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights guarantees media pluralism and if that Charter is integrated into a new constitutional treaty , as Liberal Democrats hope it will be , would that not provide a necessary legal base for action ? 
Will the Commission undertake to bring forward a White Paper updating its 1994 communication in the light of technological change and developments in the industry ? 
It seems to me that we can not ignore the dangers that media concentration poses to our society . 
The power of media ownership now frequently extends across national borders . 
Given that a free and diverse media is essential to our continent 's democracy , prosperity and cultural vitality , it is high time that politicians face up to their responsibilities and return to this issue . 
Madam President , the management of EU fisheries is at an important juncture with key stocks in the North Sea and elsewhere in decline and the future of fishing and fish processing industries therefore under threat . 
So it is essential that the Commission gets it right , proposing a management system which ensures sustainable fisheries backed up by up-to-date independent and verifiable scientific evidence involving stakeholders and installing confidence in the system . 
However , as the first set of CFP reform proposals nears a conclusion , I find myself more cynical about the process and less optimistic about the future for Scotland 's fishing-dependent communities than ever before . 
Is a workable EU fisheries policy achievable ? 
I have always believed that the only way to succeed in achieving the necessary balance between resource , harvesting and conservation and to better encourage compliance with any management regime is to have a regime with which the stakeholders can have some faith . 
That is why I have welcomed the Commission 's support for regional advisory councils as a step in the right direction , towards a much-needed new and better way of doing things . 
Actions , however , have to accompany words and I have been shocked by the attitude displayed by the Commission recently in relation to cod and other white fish quotas for next year . 
To announce the possible closure of the Scots fishing industry with the ` we know best ' and ` it 's all your own fault ' statements attributed to Commissioner Fischler seems to fly in the face of the stated intention to involve stakeholders more . 
This ` tough guy ' approach , presumably designed to make the actual outcome for next year seem relatively palatable , should have no place in a new CFP . 
The sad truth is that irreparable damage has been done by the Commission in the last six months to the Scottish confidence in Europe being capable of managing fisheries at all . 
With Mr Fischler 's about-turn on deep-water management , followed by the insensitive presentation of the ICES 's advice on cod and its repercussions for Scotland , it is little wonder that conspiracy theories abound . 
Sadly at this moment , he seems to me more likely to achieve the latter . 
I and the leadership of the Scottish fishing industry have played a constructive role , working with environmental organisations in the consultative process towards CFP reform . 
I would like to see the Commission and the Council taking due account of that and giving some return and not penalising the Scots for their efforts . 
Madam President , thank you for extending the debate to give me a chance to get here and participate . 
When I find out that part of the reason for the delay is reindeer running on the runway of the international airport in Strasbourg , I find that utterly incredible . 
Firstly , I understand that during the debate a great deal of concern has been expressed about the wreck of the Prestige off the coast of Galicia . 
I hope that from what has been said in this debate my colleagues will agree with me that we should be calling for the Commission and the EU institutions to take all possible steps to aid Galicia in dealing with this horrendous problem . 
What a sorry state of affairs that after 20 years of failed policies we are now looking at the destruction of an industry that is as old as mankind itself . 
In the name of conservation our fishermen have been forced to dump millions of tonnes of prime fish back into the sea dead to comply with the lunatic quota scheme . 
In the name of conservation our fishermen have suffered tie-ups , lay-offs , emergency closures , decommissioning , job losses and plunging incomes and now the message from the scientists appears to be that everything they have advised in the past has failed - all the technical conservation measures , all the increased mesh sizes , the square mesh panels to allow young cod to escape , all the emergency closures of cod spawning grounds , the 40 000 square miles of the North Sea closed for 12 weeks last year without one penny of compensation paid to the fishermen , the three years in a row that the Irish Sea has been closed for cod fishing , the massive decommissioning round that took over 100 demersal vessels out of the Scottish fleet alone . 
Tens of thousands of big mature cod are being caught around the Faroes and Iceland where they have no CFP . 
Nobody is disputing that . 
So there is no point in discussing a roadmap tonight . 
Mr President , to clarify this matter I would like the words ` and their constitutional regions ' inserted after ` Member States ' . 
This is a matter of real concern in many parts of Europe , including Scotland . 
Mr President , again , in line with the previous oral amendment , could we withdraw the deletion of this particular amendment and for clarification add the words ` if legally possible ' ? 
It is now brought into line with the decision we took on the earlier amendment . 
I would hope that the UK authorities will listen to the advice of this Parliament and ensure that the Barclay Brothers are not allowed to acquire ownership of The Scotsman newspaper . 
I proposed an oral amendment to this resolution . 
I wanted to make it clear that within countries like Scotland and other so-called ` constitutional regions ' there must be protection against concentrations of media ownership that threaten fair and pluralistic public debate . 
In Scotland today , there is a serious risk that the owners of The Scotsman newspaper may purchase its chief rival The Herald . 
Other similar regions have similar concerns , for example Catalonia , the Basque Country and Wales . 
The serried ranks of British conservatism , together with their EPP allies , blocked the oral amendment that would have given a high profile to this aspect of media freedom . 
That lies upon their conscience . 
Even without the oral amendment , the resolution makes a vital point about the relationship between free media and real democracy . 
Mr President , I should like to add my support to your speech on The Scotsman and The Herald . 
Before I begin on the Stevenson and Souchet reports , I find it quite disgraceful that colleagues in this House do not recognise that half a million EU citizens die every year because of tobacco use . 
A tobacco advertising ban would be an extremely good measure to try and help public health and save lives . 
On the Stevenson report , I should like to point out that we voted to maintain the 6-12 mile zones to preserve historic fishing rights and derogations relating to boxes in the North Sea . 
We also believe that benefit from fishing agreements should be taken into account in quota setting and that poverty eradication is a key aim of fishing agreements . 
We are very sceptical of an amendment deleting the recital which noted that joint ventures can be used to massage fleet reduction figures . 
Mr President , the more we look into the subject of traditional herbal medicines the more I am convinced that there is urgent need for action . 
Like millions of other EU citizens , I am a user of herbal medicinal products . 
I want a guarantee that when I go into my local health food shop the echinacea or ginseng I buy is of a high quality and standard . 
Sadly , in the UK at the moment you can not guarantee that this will be the case . 
In front of me I have four certificates of analysis and four different types of echinacea products . 
The first has on its label echinacea root . 
However , the others simply are not good enough . 
One failed to comply because of excessive amounts of acid insoluble ash in the product . 
Another was apparently free of echinacea root altogether , and the last had not been solely manufactured from echinacea root powder as claimed on the label . 
This means that the next time I go and buy my echinacea , I have a 25 % chance of actually purchasing what I want . 
This lottery has to end . 
These inferior products on the market are cheating consumers and bringing herbal medicines into disrepute . 
However , we also require a flexible approach , especially on herbal nutrient combinations , traditional herbal medicines from outside the EU and non-herbal traditional medicines . 
Herbal nutrient combinations for products are not classified as medicines . 
Currently they may normally be legally sold as foods and that position would not change . 
Where these combination products are classified as medicines , currently they are not covered by the present UK regime for unlicensed herbal medicines and therefore require a marketing authorisation . 
The EU proposal would offer greater flexibility than what is offered at the moment in the UK because the directive would permit the inclusion of nutrients which were non-active . 
Traditional medicines from outside the EU , such as Chinese medicines , will be able to satisfy the 50 year requirement . 
However , I agree with those in the herbal sector who would like greater flexibility in taking account of evidence from outside the EU . 
The key point is that the quality and relevance of evidence of traditional use is more important than geographical origin . 
This directive deserves to be considered in the light of all the facts , in the interest of public health , consumer confidence and expanded choice on the market . 
The thrust of this report is fully in line with the Lisbon Summit objectives and continues the forward-looking attitude consistently demonstrated by Parliament . 
It should also serve to bolster the Commission 's new-found courage as regards biotechnology and the life sciences . 
But how dreadful the contrast with the Council of Ministers who yet again this week demonstrated their abject failure to follow through on the goals they set at Lisbon . 
The grossly mistitled ` Competitiveness Council ' could not reach consensus about the proper jurisdiction for Community patent disputes . 
What hope is there of achieving Europe 's potential in this area when the Council is at least one year behind the deadline it set itself for agreement on this vital matter ? 
Without a cost-efficient means of patenting intellectual property rights , what incentive is there for our scientists ? 
Mrs Damião , thank you for giving us hope that there is real hope in Europe for biotechnology and the life sciences . 
Mr President , I am speaking today on behalf of Mr Evans , who is the shadow rapporteur for the PPE-DE Group . 
He very much regrets that he can not be here today . 
We have presented some amendments to these reports , with the general aim that they should provide more encouragement for free trade . 
In the last few years , the European Union has rightly focused on the need for greater competition and consumer choice and has often used its powers to great and beneficial effect . 
Increased free trade and the reduction of unfair subsidies have been a most positive result . 
Just as policies of this kind produced handsome rewards for businesses and consumers when my country , under a Conservative government , rediscovered and pioneered these practices in the 1980s , they are now doing the same in the rest of the European Union . 
Encouraging greater competition is an enormous task . 
For the first three decades after the Second World War , state aid and protectionism were less controversial . 
It is still difficult to combat these traditional ideas and entrenched interests , especially in a climate where the opponents of free trade often have the catchier slogans . 
We are most fortunate that we have , in Commissioner Monti , someone who is convinced that the opening of markets and the freeing of trade is in everyone 's interest . 
We are most grateful to him for his persistent and hard work in combating anything , be it cartels or subsidies , that impedes the operation of a fair market . 
The report by Mr Herzog concerns the newly-introduced scoreboard for state aid . 
This is a most useful tool . 
We fully support its introduction and are anxious that it should be used enthusiastically . 
It is most encouraging to note that it points to a decline in state aid , although we would like to see a further decrease . 
The disparities between countries show that some Member States provide up to three times as much state aid as others . 
It is our hope that the scoreboard will serve as an encouragement to Member States to continue and accelerate their reforms and that the scoreboard will also assist the reforms of the new Member States after their accession in 2004 . 
Mr Lipietz 's report focuses on general competition policy and we are pleased to see that it reflects many of our concerns . 
In particular , the report highlights the lack of progress in the liberalisation of the gas and electricity markets and urges action in the opening up of European markets in energy , transport and postal services . 
The report rightly congratulates Commissioner Monti and his staff on their approach . 
We in this Parliament should urge him further along the path he has chosen to take . 
I would like to conclude by commending the continuation of the European Union 's policies in these areas to Parliament . 
I hope Parliament will support our amendments and I look forward to even greater progress in the years to come . 
Mr President , I would like to ask the movers of Amendments Nos 31 and 37 to clarify whether they intend that this should ban the therapeutic cloning of human embryos . 
That is why I am dismayed by the reports that the Commissioner is suggesting Gibraltar was in some way responsible because it failed to inspect the ship . 
I would like to point out to the Commissioner that the Prestige has only called in at Gibraltar once in the last five years and then it did not even enter the port , it refuelled outside . 
In that period it has also put in at several other ports , including Algeciras , Las Palmas , Dunkirk , Cork , Rotterdam and Kalamata . 
We have a saying in Glasgow : if you live in a glasshouse you do not have sex with your gardener ! 
After the Braer sank off the coast of Scotland in 1992 , Neil Kinnock put forward legislation on double-hull vessels . 
As the Commissioner rightly pointed out , that was deferred by the Council until 2015 . 
However , we need new legislation now to close up the loopholes . 
Mr President , I would just like to express my profound sympathy with what Mr Nogueira Román has said . 
We , in Scotland , recently in the case the Braer disaster suffered a similar misfortune . 
But that is not what I wanted to speak about tonight . 
I would like to mention the currently hot issue about access to the Court of Justice , especially rights of semi-privileged access in the case of regions with legislative powers . 
The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed that last week and it will come before us in a fortnight 's time as a hotly controversial point . 
Tonight 's debate on fisheries brings up an interesting example which shows what the reality of the issue is . 
There are big risks for Scottish fisheries of the kind which Mr Nogueira in a different sense has alluded to . 
It could be that we want to raise an issue about the legality of current proposals under the primary law relating to the accession of Spain and Portugal . 
That really ought to be something which can be taken up by the legislature and executive which deal with this problem as a matter of European law , then the Scottish Parliament and Executive . 
Only if we get appropriate rights of access to the courts will that sort of question be answered in the proper place . 
Mr President , could I first of all add my thanks to the rapporteurs , Mr Jové Peres and Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna , for excellent reports , and could I also say to both of them , because they come from Galicia , that they have our deepest sympathy from the Committee on Fisheries on the unfolding tragedy in that area from the wreck of the Prestige . 
If the Committee on Fisheries can give any help at all , we will do whatever is necessary and find whatever help we can muster to aid the people of Galicia . 
Our heart is with them at this time . 
I want to speak about the cod crisis . 
As the House knows , in order to tackle dwindling cod stocks in the North Sea , the Irish Sea , to the west of Scotland and the Skagerrak , the Commission are calling for massive cuts of up to 80 % on the cod and haddock fisheries and significant reductions in other parts of the white fish sector . 
Cuts of this magnitude would wipe out the white fish sector in the United Kingdom and Ireland and destroy many thousands of jobs in those countries , as well as in France , Scandinavia and the Netherlands . 
I hope that this House will support me in saying that we demand that right and that we intend to have our say and our full consultation will be called for on these revised proposals . 
In the interests of enhancing this debate , I want to ask the Commission why they are prepared to accept the flawed and out-of-date scientific data on which they have based their call for these draconian cuts , because the ICES scientific data was collected in the year 2001 , before stringent conservation measures were put in place , the benefits of which have not yet been measured . 
For example : the fishermen in my constituency in Scotland extended mesh sizes to 120 millimetres , they suffered the 12 week closure of 40 000 square miles of cod spawning grounds in the North Sea last spring , 170 vessels were scrapped under the latest decommissioning rounds , leaving many thousands of tonnes of fish swimming in the sea that would otherwise have been caught . 
And of course , parts of the Irish Sea have been closed for cod fisheries for the last three years , enabling cod stocks to recover . 
The impact of these measures has not yet been analysed by the scientists , nor has the possibility that rising temperatures , pollution or the North Atlantic drift may have contributed to the migration of cod further northwards towards Iceland and the Faroes where many thousands of tonnes of cod are regularly being caught . 
Indeed the same scientists who are calling for a minimum closure of six years for our white fish industry can not guarantee that the cod will ever return to the North Sea even if we implement these measures . 
As we know in the Committee on Fisheries , 10 years ago the Canadian government closed the Newfoundland Banks and there is no sign yet of the cod returning there . 
In their place , however , Canadian fishermen are finding huge stocks of snow crab and shrimps , which are netting them around four times the dollar income that the cod used to earn . 
I think a similar pattern is now emerging in the North Sea , where we are seeing large burgeoning populations of prawns , now one of our richest fisheries . 
Scientists have recently revealed that , just as the cod fish will eat prawns , prawns eat cod larvae . 
It may well be that , whatever draconian measures we take , we will fail to re-establish the cod . 
By the end of six years of intended closure , at the very minimum , such measures would be academic in any case because according to the most recent socio-economic impact study , up to 44 000 fishermen and ancillary workers would have lost their jobs . 
That is the kind of catastrophe they face this Christmas after faithfully adhering to the rules and regulations of the Common Fisheries Policy for the past twenty years . 
I support the need for a sustainable fishery and the need to get fleet capacity into balance with available fish stocks , but I also recognise that a viable fishing industry needs fishermen to catch the fish . 
Mr President , in the CFP reform process , I have consistently favoured retaining the founding principle of relative stability - installing the coastal zones as a permanent feature of the CFP at least up to 12 miles and strengthening the role of the proposed regional advisory councils so that real involvement of stakeholders can be achieved . 
I have also supported in principle proposals to move to a multi-annual , multi-species and ecosystem approach to fisheries management and my views are broadly in line with the Commission 's on structural issues . 
Certainly the CFP to date has not exactly been a resounding success , as we have all acknowledged . 
That means that the scientific advice has to be up-to-date , it has to be verifiable , it has to be independent and it has to be able to be proved to be so . 
The cod crisis that has been looming over the North Sea for almost two years has seen fishermen already being subject to real-time closures , to swingeing cuts in fleet size and a variety of technical measures including increased mesh sizes . 
Their efforts have borne at least some fruit in that the improvement of stocks of cod is only approximately 3 % short of the target set by recovery plans . 
Now , these same fishermen are faced with drastic cuts and a total loss of any confidence in the Commission and its scientific advice , with measures being proposed which could totally devastate already fragile fishing communities . 
I think the Commission must take into account the specific nature of this cod crisis and not tie its hands with political deadlines . 
The forthcoming December Council will be the forum for finalising reform proposals and it should not be used for rushing through panic measures for cod and associated species . 
I urge the Commission to transform its words into real action . 
Why not establish urgently the first pilot regional advisory council - or management council , as I would prefer - and give it the task of helping to devise measures to save the stocks of white fish in the North Sea . 
In that way , faith could be restored in the process at the same time . 
I call on the Commission to think again too when it comes to open access to the North Sea as part of a future CFP . 
The present crisis only underlines the fragility of that sea and the key stocks in its mixed fishery . 
Your own words , Commissioner , in a written answer to me said : ` very little is known about the abundance and status of non-quota species in the North Sea but fishing for non-quota species would almost certainly incur by-catches of species subject to quotas ' . 
I say let us get reform right and then use it ... 
Mr President , I would like to concentrate on the cod crisis . 
It is a tragic day today if we are meeting here not to focus on the positive reform of the CFP but to debate the fate of fisheries in the North Sea . 
As we all know , ISIS has recommended no fishing for haddock and whiting in these areas unless ways to harvest these stocks - and I am quoting - ` without by-catch or discards of cod ' can be demonstrated . 
ISIS has also implied severe restrictions in the fisheries of nephrops , plaice and sole with - and I quote - ` stringent restrictions on the catch and discard rates of cod with effective monitoring of compliance with those restrictions ' . 
I am glad that the Commission has moved away from an all-out moratorium . 
However , sadly , due to the nature of mixed fisheries , 80 % would still effectively mean the same : a closure of fisheries in the North Sea . 
I would like to commend the work of the UK and Scottish Fisheries Ministers ; the UK Fisheries Minister Mr Elliot Moreley , the Scottish Fisheries Minister Mr Ross Finny and the Secretary of State for Scotland , Mrs Helen Liddle . 
They are fighting for the future of Scottish fisheries and the final decision ultimately rests at their doors , not ours . 
However , we have to consider what kind of future we want . 
Or , do we want to work through , in a cooperative manner , with industry , ministers and other organisations to seek a common solution ? 
Whatever solution is agreed , change is inevitable . 
At present there is no specific UK/Scottish counter-proposal to what the Commission is proposing . 
However , doing nothing in the light of declining cod stocks is not an option . 
The difficult task of reaching a quota figure that is sustainable yet scientifically credible remains . 
The next two weeks will be critical to finding a solution to this crisis . 
Mr President , in reply to Mr Seppänen 's point , I do not know many civil services in the world which are appointed only after a hearing by the Parliament and have to acquire the confidence of the Parliament to take office or which are dismissible as a college by Parliament . 
That is one of the important features of the situation as it obtains at the moment . 
As Mr Prodi has said , what we are looking for is a supranational democracy in Europe and that will be , in important ways , a democracy sui generis , not exactly like that of any pre-existing state or society . 
I welcome a lot of what he has said today about the way the Commission should take office and hold office . 
This is an attempt to retain the kind of balance between the three institutions which ought to characterise Europe and which does not at the moment in anything like the same way characterise many of our Member States , where the government has become the controller of the legislature of the parliament rather than the other way around . 
That is a good feature of his proposals . 
Although Mr Hänsch has pointed very accurately to some difficulties and potential contradictions that will mean that these proposals have to be more fully thought through to deal with the question , what about the risks of deadlock in the system which you are suggesting ? 
Another point that picks up what Mr Poettering said and which nobody else has spoken of is that a European democracy must be a democracy at many levels . 
One of the great disappointments of the Convention so far has been the tiny attention it has given to those levels of democracy which exist within and below the level of the Member State . 
If we do not take account , adequately and properly , of substantial constitutional regions with legislative powers - the internal nations of the Member States - then this Union will not work as a successful democracy . 
Mr Napoletano has prepared a report today to the Constitutional Affairs Committee of this Parliament . 
We have amended it in committee and we believe that we have strengthened it . 
He is not fully happy with all that we have reached there but I hope that the Commission and the Convention are going to listen to this because if they do not also attend to this vital level of democracy in Europe all will fail . 
Mr President , I do not wish to reopen a debate which this Parliament has already had but you were elected on a programme for reform of this House . 
Powerful elements in the two major groups have blocked that reform and I hope , Mr President , that the Council and the Commission , represented here today , will see the strength of feeling in this House in favour of such reform , greater than it has ever been , and will take that into account . 
Mr President , on Mr Jové Peres , the EPLP voted differently from the proposed PS line in order to be consistent with the approach taken by the UK Government on fisheries and to reflect our support for the following : to look at fisheries management on the basis that absence of scientific evidence does not mean postponing conservation support for a strong role for regional management councils with decision-making power and access support for extension up to 24 miles , support for 12 miles and support for 50 miles for remote areas , for effective measures to reduce fishing capacity and for a continuation of relative stability . 
Mr President , the SNP Members here , Neil MacCormick and myself , have taken a constructive approach to the issue of Common Fisheries Policy reform because we agree that there is dire need for Common Fisheries Policy reform . 
For that reason , we voted today in favour of improving Mr Jové Peres 's text in various ways . 
Nevertheless , in the end we voted against the overall package because we do not believe that it goes far enough in strengthening guarantees on relative stability , for example , on continuing access restrictions to certain waters and on enforcement issues . 
Scotland 's fishing communities will be demanding that a new Common Fisheries Policy actually does what it is supposed to do , namely that it actually addresses the real management issues in a way which will be effective in terms of conservation and sustainability . 
Mr President , I just want to endorse what my friend and colleague , Mr Hudghton , has said and indeed to endorse many of the things which Catherine Stihler said as well . 
In this area a great deal of the discussion among us remains bedevilled by different understandings of the legal background , in particular , of the continuing effects of the Spanish and Portuguese Treaty of Accession of 1985 . 
That does need testing in a legal way and not just by political debate in the Parliament . 
I would like to take some steps to push that forward . 
As I mentioned yesterday , it does show one of the kinds of areas in which it would be very fruitful if it were the case that regions with legislative power had the right to seize the Court of Justice of questions because , after all , a parliament like the Scottish Parliament , which has legislative responsibility for these matters , should be able to test out the question of the legal basis and so should the Parliament of Galicia , might I add . 
This is not a particularly one-country point . 
It is to do with the thought that these are issues of law as well as of politics and we should be thinking of good ways of getting the law finally determined by a judicial authority . 
Mr President , regarding the Varela report on structural assistance , we rejected the report because it aims to keep the current structure of CFP subsidies . 
The subsidies system has led to a contradictory situation where subsidies are spent on the one hand on scrapping vessels to reduce capacity , and on the other hand on financing the building of new vessels and modernisation of others . 
The subsidies system has helped to drive over-capacity of the EU fleet . 
It has mainly supported the large boat-owners at the expense of smaller operators and local fishing communities , and this subsidy system has financed the export of our over-capacity to other parts of the world . 
This is unacceptable and that is why we rejected the Varela structural assistance report . 
Mr President , on the second Varela report on the scrapping of fishing vessels , we rejected the report because the number of boats in Europe should match the number of fish available and currently the European fleet is greatly over capacity . 
We believe the report to support re-directing structural funds in 2004 to 2006 to help reduce the size of the fleet on a voluntary basis . 
The report suggests that any emergency Community measure would need additional funding up to 2006 . 
This is not logical because it proposes extra funding for scrapping at the same time as providing subsidies for improving efficiency of the existing vessels or even building new ones . 
It does not respect the precautionary principle . 
Although not perfect , most scientific evidence suggests that many stocks are in danger of collapse and are being over-fished by an EU fleet that is too big . 
Mr President , the December Council of fisheries ministers will have a hefty agenda in terms of agreeing the first package of CFP reform proposals . 
The Commission says that it wants from that a new way of doing things , a better way of doing things , involving stakeholders more , using a multi-annual , multi-species ecosystem approach to management . 
And yet , at the very same time , the Commission seems hell-bent on pushing through its current proposals on cod and hake recovery , which , I believe , are so different from previous versions that they ought to be put out to further consultation . 
I also think that to press ahead and agree that package with its wide-ranging consequences will , in fact , torpedo the CFP reform package and prevent any perception forthcoming from the Council that the EU actually means what it says when it states that it wants to do things in a better way . 
Mr President , I understand it is not possible to request a change , but may one protest against a change made by the Conference of Presidents ? 
It is outrageous that this has been taken off the agenda . 
Mr President , this is a very acceptable suggestion , but there is a risk that , yet again , the Members ' general opportunity to question the Commission at question time will be curtailed . 
Will question time be extended by a compensatory period please ? 
Mr President , I voted against this report , not because I do not support the recommendations on the way forward in the event of another unfortunate outbreak of foot and mouth disease , but because of the basic inaccuracies in the preamble . 
I prefer to vote for fact and not fiction and , because certain people wish to obscure the truth with political fiction , I have voted against . 
It has been claimed that over 10 million animals were slaughtered during the foot and mouth outbreak but owners have only claimed compensation for 6.5 million . 
Farmers , I know , are not slow in coming forward . 
There is no evidence of breaches in animal welfare legislation . 
If there was , surely there would have been prosecutions , since animal rights groups within the UK are amongst the most active in the world . 
Finally , the report hints at breaches in environmental legislation due to such events as the burning of dead carcasses . 
The Environmental Agency within the UK carried out an investigation of the procedure used in the foot and mouth outbreak and concluded that there had been no breaches . 
The report is , therefore , unfortunately basically flawed . 
Mr President , on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , I would like to congratulate the President-in-Office on the successful conclusion in Copenhagen of an outstanding Danish presidency . 
It is rare in my experience for a presidency to receive such wide praise from all sides of this House . 
The improvement in relations between the Council and Parliament has been notable , and we owe much in this regard to the role of our former , much-esteemed colleague , Mr Haarder . 
The outcome of the summit is a tribute to the negotiating skills of Mr Fogh Rasmussen and the persistence both he and his team displayed . 
Their decision to focus single-mindedly on enlargement paid off handsomely : Europe can now reunite . 
The full application of the Copenhagen criteria , both in the new countries and in the existing Member States , must remain a matter of concern . 
Moreover , there are referenda to be won in all the new countries - referenda in which each and every one of us can play an important part , if we so choose . 
Copenhagen offers Bulgaria and Romania the prospect of greater pre-accession aid and the objective of membership in 2007 . 
While these two countries will clearly be in the next wave of enlargement , we should continue to be guided by the principle that each candidate will be judged on its own merits . 
Liberal Democrats would have preferred an earlier review of Turkey 's readiness for accession . 
However , Turkey is clearly now on the path to membership and , if the Copenhagen criteria are met by the end of 2004 , my group will hold the governments to their commitment to open membership negotiations . 
An agreement on the United Nations plan to reunite Cyprus would have been the icing on the cake of the Copenhagen Council . 
We hope that Turkey will seize the opportunity to confirm its European vocation by putting pressure on Mr Denktash to reach a compromise . 
However , celebrations over the historic decision to reunite Europe - and I welcome the very prominent role played by Liberals in the Council , Commission and Parliament , whether those on the benches in front of us apply that label to themselves or not - should not be allowed to overshadow another significant breakthrough at Copenhagen . 
That was the agreement with Turkey to allow the EU 's Rapid Reaction Force to go ahead and have access to Nato 's resources . 
Europe 's security and defence ambitions can now be put to the test as the EU takes over Operation Amber Fox in Macedonia . 
This may pave the way for more ambitious missions in the future , including peace-enforcement operations in accordance with the UN Charter . 
A wider Europe must be prepared to shoulder its responsibilities in the world , whether in the Middle East - I congratulate the Council on its firm declaration on that conflict - or elsewhere . 
We must be a bulwark for freedom and democracy and a force for justice . 
In building that strength , we owe much to Denmark . 
But when it comes to immigration , no country is an island . 
A real debate is needed at European level , and not the kind of distasteful sloganeering that we suffered at the Seville European Council . 
As a policy issue , immigration is simple . 
Unless we open our markets to goods from poorer countries , thus helping their people to prosper , we will take their people . 
And unless we set our own immigration policy , either anarchy will reign or - more worryingly - criminal gangs of human traffickers will set that policy for us . 
What a pity that our governments did not listen a little more carefully to the advice of the Canadian Government about how , if we wished to get on top of the trafficking in people , we should open our front door a little to legal migration , in order to close our back door more effectively against illegal migration . 
The debate has been dominated by the repressive aspects of migration policy and has shown scant regard for its humanitarian aspects . 
The strategy has hardly been one of small steps as the Commissioners suggested - one of ` faltering feet ' is perhaps a better description . 
I had the honour of chairing the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs in this House for the first two years of that discussion . 
I regret not only the EU 's failure to establish effective and complete policies on immigration and asylum , but also its failure to ensure responsible stewardship of our economy which is intimately linked with immigration . 
The Commission 's review of the European economy in 2002 shows the devastating economic consequences of stagnating population growth , which could lead to the rate of potential economic growth falling by 1 % of GDP per annum for the next 50 years . 
Well , exhortations to procreation have never been known to work . 
The evidence suggests that the higher our living standards become , the less people will want to have children . 
So for economic reasons too , we need a mature debate about a policy of managed migration . 
I hope that this afternoon 's debate will contribute to achieving some joined-up thinking on immigration policy . 
I have been asked to report on the readmission agreement with Hong Kong . 
I regret that Parliament has been neither consulted nor kept informed during the negotiations on this readmission agreement , that we find ourselves in the position of having to deliver our opinion after the agreement has been initialled - and , moreover , after the Agriculture Council on 23 December adopted the decision authorising its signing . 
According to Rule 97 of our Rules of Procedure , throughout the negotiations - and here I quote : ` The Commission and the Council shall inform the committee responsible regularly and thoroughly of the progress of the negotiations ' . 
I deplore the fact that did not happen , all the more so because this is the first readmission agreement negotiated by the Community . 
In the case of future agreements , I ask that Parliament be kept informed about the state of negotiations by the Commission and the Council . 
Readmission is about the return of persons found irregularly on our territory . 
Effective return safeguards the integrity of asylum policies and of regular immigration programmes and it acts as a deterrent to irregular migration . 
Return has risen to prominence essentially because of the way in which our over-stretched asylum systems are being used as alternatives to a closed-door immigration policy . 
When the Council adopted its return action programme at the end of last month , I am sure it took into account the many advantages of assisted voluntary return , as well as the possibility of forced return . 
The advantage of assisted voluntary return is that it permits return in a non-punitive and a cost-effective way . 
It has been shown to work in Germany , in the United Kingdom , in the Netherlands and in Belgium . 
It is more convenient and it is less costly , both financially and politically , than deportation . 
It has been almost exclusively a European phenomenon and we need more research on the sustainability of return under AVR programmes . 
But our policy needs to be rational , driven not by prejudice , but by a sober assessment of our needs . 
It must be carried out by governments who ought to resist the temptation sometimes to deport in order to seek approval from the mob . 
That policy must also address gender and health issues which are vital in this debate . 
There is a danger that today 's debate will be confused with a debate on Hong Kong tomorrow which reflects concern about the implementation of Article 23 of the Basic Law . 
Some may argue that Hong Kong is not a safe country . 
I accept the assurance given on 10 December by Donald Tsang , Hong Kong 's Chief Secretary , when he gave his personal guarantee about the free flow of information and the freedom of speech remaining essential characteristics of Hong Kong society . 
Nor have I any doubt that the Hong Kong administration is competent to administer a readmission agreement . 
Moreover the agreement itself refers to international commitments to the protection of vulnerable persons . 
However , what concerns me about this agreement is that it is the first in what will be a series of such agreements . 
Authorisation has already been given for the negotiation of such agreements with many countries - some of them have even been initialled . 
The fact is that some of those agreements will be far harder than this one . 
Therefore , I would ask the Commission this afternoon to clarify a number of issues . 
The first concerns the scale of voluntary and forced repatriation promoted by the Member States , the categories of people involved and their countries of origin . 
Are the measures that Member States have adopted adequate and effective ? 
Since this House is also very concerned to ensure that the policies of return and the readmission agreements we negotiate respect fundamental rights , I would also ask how the Commission proposes to ensure that the rights of individuals are respected in the event of repatriation , especially if this occurs on a large scale . 
Is the Commission sure that the readmission agreements it is proposing are compatible with our obligations under international refugee law ? 
Will the Commission commit itself to establishing joint monitoring mechanisms with the countries with which we make readmission agreements ? 
The House would like answers to all these questions . 
I would also like to know why the European Parliament is never mentioned in the Commission 's communication on a Community return policy . 
I would like clarification as to which coherent and transparent financial instrument will be used for the return policy in question and readmission agreements in particular . 
The role of the European Parliament as one arm of the budgetary authority is clearly important in this , and I would be interested to know whether we will , from a financial point of view , need a new legal base for this policy . 
The human rights clause in the readmission agreement used for Hong Kong is not strong enough to protect us against all eventualities in such agreements with other countries . 
We should recognise that , while concluding the agreement with Hong Kong was a relatively easy matter , as we were able to offer them visa-free access to the EU in return , cutting a deal with countries such as Russia and Morocco will be not a whit as easy . 
We will need to provide incentives for many third countries to cooperate with us , rather than threatening them with economic sanctions , as Mr Blair and Mr Aznar proposed in Seville . 
That is why I welcome the Commission 's recent communication on integrating migration issues into the Union 's external relations policy . 
If we join up the dots between this paper , our development policy , the negotiations on readmission and our economic need for immigration , we will be demonstrating the joined-up thinking we so urgently require in immigration and asylum policy . 
Mr President , given the tragic nature of the disaster off the coast of Galicia and the other Member States which have since been affected by the oil tragedy , there is great solidarity and support in this House for our colleagues in Galicia . 
Therefore , I would urge the House to support the switching of EUR 30 million . 
This money would otherwise have been used to compensate those who lost their livelihoods when we failed to renegotiate the Morocco Agreement . 
Since those funds are no longer required for compensation , they will be earmarked for helping the victims of the Prestige tragedy . 
I would urge the House to support this and show solidarity with the beleaguered fishermen and families in Galicia . 
Today 's resolution about the Copenhagen Summit congratulated the Government of Denmark for sustaining an excellent Council presidency , and for enabling us to celebrate today the largest enlargement in the history of the Union . 
This brings in ten new states , most of them relatively small , including six which have recently achieved independence by democratic means . 
We in Scotland are frequently told that as a small country we would have no great standing in Europe if we were likewise to achieve independence in Europe through democratic departure from a larger union . 
During the current fisheries negotiations , on the other hand , we have been warned not to expect too much since the UK lacks solid allies in Europe . 
There are five million Danes and five million Scots . 
The idea that small states count for nothing while large ones can cut the mustard has been shown up for the nonsense it is . 
My vote was motivated by these thoughts , as well as by a great satisfaction at seeing this greater Union safely achieved . 
Mr President , I am delighted with the support we have received from Mr Barón Crespo and the PSE Group . 
The action of the Governor of the State of Illinois in the United States is something we very much welcome . 
It is for that reason that we maintain our request for an urgency on this subject . 
Mr President , I also want to express my gratitude and satisfaction that the Parliament is today debating this report on an initiative which came from Mr Napolitano himself . 
Of course my group prefers the report in what we regard as the strengthened form in which it emerged from the committee , but which on some points Mr Napolitano thinks was pushed too far . 
No doubt that will be where the votes will be concentrated on Wednesday . 
However , it is a matter of common consensus that democracy in the European Union is necessarily democracy at many levels . 
The principle of subsidiarity is an iterative principle which works down the line and which should , as far as possible , enable people with local knowledge to apply that local knowledge , with common sense , to local circumstances , taking account of the purposes of the European legislation in question . 
It is often said that a characteristic of the European method of legal interpretation is its purposive quality , and I feel that to some extent the local enforcers of European law should act with regard to the purpose not only to the letter of the law . 
That is not to say that I wish to see a different law operating in different parts of Europe , but it is difficult to have the same law operating identically where there are very different circumstances . 
For example , very arid countries will necessarily apply the same water law in a somewhat different way than very wet countries because the circumstances that lead to the application of the law vary and these need to be taken into account . 
That surely is important . 
Another important matter is that the transposition of the directive should take account of the local circumstances ; it is yet more important that the protocol on subsidiarity should encourage local and regional authorities to exercise a constructive discretion in enabling the directive to make the most possible sense at local level . 
There are other points that have been raised which we think are vital as well . 
The regional authorities should on occasion be able to take matters to the Court of Justice . 
Just at the moment , in Scotland , the government , the Scottish Executive , the opposition parties , are all of the view for example that a recent compromise reached at the Fisheries Council violates the principle of proportionality . 
Why should it be left to the fishing people to test that ? 
Why can not the regional authority responsible for enforcing the law test it itself ? 
Many other such examples sprint to mind . 
There should also be opportunities to take things into account during the legislative process and before it . 
The EFA parties which I represent here do not just represent regions . 
Of course the countries we represent are regions in the technical constitutional sense . 
However it should not be forgotten - and Mr Lamassoure in his famous remarks about partner regions was not forgetting it - they are also among the ancient nations of Europe which deserve to be taken seriously . 
If it comes out of this Parliament , or out of the Convention , that there is nothing for a region between being a Member State and being nothing , then you know what answer you will get . 
Just for confirmation , according to the final draft agenda , the vote is not tomorrow as Mr Méndez de Vigo implied , but on Wednesday . 
It has been changed back to tomorrow ? 
Right , we need Amendment No 24 very quickly then . 
In some parts of the European Union , such as the rural and island areas of Scotland , there is simply no alternative to road transport for the distribution of goods or passengers . 
For that reason , excessively restricted working hours for lorry and coach drivers would add to the difficulties already faced by residents and businesses , bringing further increases in costs of essential goods and services . 
I will therefore vote against amendments which seek to apply even greater reductions in driving time than contained in the Commission 's proposal . 
If EU regulations are to be seen as relevant , due account must be taken of the realities facing rural and island communities . 
I hope that the final proposal in relation to drivers ' working hours will recognise that some areas , such as the Highlands and Islands of Scotland , require a flexible approach to be taken and I hope that the Council and Commission will agree . 
Given that role , I felt it was right that they should have a say in the adoption of European law . 
The Napolitano report takes that principle and moves it forward in the context of today 's Europe . 
By making a case for the regions but leaving it to the individual Member States to decide how to implement his recommendations , he has struck the right balance . 
For example , we have just heard an argument for regions to be involved in the Council of Ministers . 
I support that argument , but each Member State must do that in the context of its own constitution . 
Finally , the one weakness in the Napolitano report is that it has not given enough emphasis to the role of regions with legislative authority . 
I hope that the Commission will look at that and find a way of engaging them more coherently in EU activities . 
Mr President , like other speakers , I am glad that in relation to the Napolitano report we have moved forward on some important points . 
It is recognised that , in appropriate constitutional circumstances , regions will have access to the Court of Justice . 
It is recognised rather clearly and in good terms that the principle of subsidiarity is iterative and applies down the line , not just between the Union of the Member States , but to the regions and local authorities as well . 
In future , for example , it seems probable that there will be five Members from Malta in the Committee of the Regions , as against 21 from Spain and 24 from the United Kingdom . 
This is not a satisfactory situation . 
The Committee of the Regions is supposed to counterbalance the Parliament . 
The balance of populations and regions on the Committee of the Regions is not at all a reasonable one . 
This report will not convince those in my party at home who think that being an independent Member State would be better than being a constitutional region , as things stand . 
Mr President , I have heard it said that there is nothing left for the Greek Presidency , other than providing the after-sales service for Copenhagen . 
The Greek Presidency will have a key role in the birth of a reformed and enlarged European Union . 
But to ensure a smooth birth a good midwife is essential and I am pleased to see that the Greek Presidency seems well prepared to play that role . 
With regard to the reform of the Union , the Convention is due to report in Thessaloniki . 
It is also important to ensure that the baby is not strangled at birth by Member States fearful of an ambitious constitutional Treaty . 
I would therefore take issue with the President-in-Office and say we should not have a lengthy interim period . 
We need a short IGC , which should be a tidying-up exercise to ratify quickly the outcome of the Convention quickly . 
2003 will be the year when politicians must sell enlargement to the voters . 
Nine out of ten of the new countries will have referenda between March and September this year . 
We need to put far more effort into making the case for a ` yes ' vote in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe than we have put recently into convincing citizens in our current Union that Europe is a ` good thing ' . 
Liberal Democrats in this House and beyond are committed to campaigning in the new countries to make sure that we get a ` yes ' vote and we call on others to join us . 
We hope in particular that the Greek Presidency can use its privileged relationship with many on the island of Cyprus to ensure that a united island joins our Union . 
Time is short , but recent developments , both on the island and in Ankara , have created a window of opportunity and I hope that you , Mr President-in-Office , will work with all parties to craft a compromise . 
I welcome the generous aspirations that you have expressed today in that regard . 
If the European Union is to succeed , however , for its current citizens and its new ones , it will need reform . 
As we approach the third anniversary of the ten-year Lisbon strategy , it has to be said that progress to date on productivity , growth , employment , investment , research and development has been disappointing . 
The continued economic slow-down is making structural reform more , not less , urgent and governments should not be deflected from the goals they set themselves . 
It will be important for the presidency to reaffirm commitment to a reformed Stability Pact , to focus on the underlying deficit , to give the Commission the power to issue early warnings to countries in danger . 
It will also need to stick to the timetable for the Financial Services Action Plan , which has already shown dangerous slippage , and to secure approval of the takeover bids directive . 
If you want someone to help you along this path , why not give the European Parliament more of a role in the follow-up to the decisions of the Spring Councils , in holding the Council accountable for the decisions that are taken ? 
That is something we would do very well . 
Europe is of course though far more than a common market and your presidency recognises this . 
The Amsterdam and Nice Treaties have created a Community of values . 
I welcome the emphasis in your presidency 's statement on the values of a generous , outward-looking and civilised society . 
You speak in your document of a planned legal immigration policy . 
Exposed as you are on Europe 's southern and eastern flanks , you see the importance of understanding a little more and condemning a little less . 
The fact is that , as long as we keep out their produce and deprive them of the hope of economic development , we will take the people of the developing countries to the south and the east . 
We need many of them to deal with the problems of an ageing population here , or the brain drain problems the Commission President referred to . 
Let us work to close the back door to illegal immigration more effectively by offering legal opportunities to those wishing to settle here and integrating them properly in our society . 
I had a great deal to say about Iraq and the Middle East peace process as well , but my time is running short . 
I would , however , say that the Greeks are well acquainted with what we in the rest of Europe understand by the word ` marathon ' . 
You take the baton from the last runner , Denmark , and try and cover as much ground as possible as quickly as possible , before handing it over to the next presidency . 
We wish you good speed in the marathon that you are running on our behalf . 
Mr President , I am grateful to have the opportunity to respond at the end of the debate . 
Members have raised very interesting points . 
I hope that the President-in-Office of the Council will have taken careful note and will be keen to take on board as many of them as he can . 
Until recently relations between Parliament and the Council were not extensive , but a combination of an increase in the powers of this House and the prospect of an increase in the number of Member States has had the effect of bringing our two institutions much closer together . 
I welcome the approach taken , first by the Danish Presidency and now continued by the Greek Presidency , to much closer working relations with this House , shown in the President-in-Office 's concern that a statute for Members should form part of the successful reform of the European Union institutions . 
We look forward to working closely with you . 
Mr President , I too would like to welcome Mr Lemierre and his colleagues to Parliament . 
His speech gave us a feeling that there is a combination of idealism , and also very considerable practicality , in the way they approach their job . 
I would also like to congratulate Mr Markov on his report . 
He has devoted much care , conscientious effort and good sense to assessing the role and performance of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development . 
His comments are measured and are a positive contribution to the EBRD 's future . 
I recently read in the press the title ` The little-known EBRD ' . 
Perhaps relative to its early days it is quite pleased to have that sobriquet , but if that is indeed the case , it is time that the EBRD became a lot better known . 
Perhaps this exposure in Parliament will help in that direction . 
This is the first time , as has already been said , that Parliament has reported on the bank , even though the majority of its capital and votes are held by EU Member States and EU institutions , even though it has played , and continues to play , a vital role in helping many of the accession states to develop their economies and political institutions to the standards which their people seek , and which will permit them a smooth entrance into the European Union family . 
The EBRD is also making a critical contribution to the countries which will border the enlarged European Union . 
It is of considerable interest that last November the EBRD announced a new strategy for its Russian operations which will extend its work into the regions of Russia , away from Moscow and St Petersburg , and help diversify the Russian economy so that it is no longer over-dependent on natural resources . 
The EBRD is the largest single foreign investor in Russia , and Russia is the largest country in its portfolio . 
Also of concern to us in the European Union is the work done by the bank in Yugoslavia , and the former republics of Yugoslavia and the Balkans . 
It is critical to the peace and security of our continent that these countries be assisted to reach a state of economic and political stability from which they too can advance to membership of the European Union in due course . 
In its objectives the EBRD is unique for such an institution , in that it not only aims to provide for economic progress , but also has a very specific duty to help its client countries develop a democratic culture and the necessary democratic institutions and procedures . 
The monitoring and measurement of its success must therefore take into account how far it has achieved its aims , both economic and democratic . 
It is difficult to be other than impressed by the EBRD 's track record . 
The exceptions concern the newly launched public information policy , which we welcome . 
We will therefore support Amendments 2 and 4 , which also welcome and encourage a more open and transparent approach . 
Hopefully , the next time Parliament drafts a report on the EBRD , it will be to welcome the continuing success of a well-known and widely esteemed institution . 
I wish the EBRD , its President , Mr Lemierre , its staff and its clients continuing success in 2003 and in the longer-term future . 
Their success is vitally important to us all . 
Aquaculture , like fish catching , has had its problems , from shipwrecks to infectious salmon anaemia ( ISA ) . 
Scotland may have some examples which can be followed , where , in the wake of ISA , fish farmers have led the way in adhering to an ISA code . 
This is particularly important considering that there was no EU funding for compensation or vaccination . 
Effective and enforceable quality assurance schemes too , such as Scottish Quality Salmon , should have a role , and this should be encouraged . 
Any strategy must ensure that aquaculture is sustainable , competitive and economically viable as an activity , taking into account environmental and social concerns - including the need to prevent escapes and to have a sustainable means of feeding farmed fish - so that a high-quality , safe product is ensured . 
There must be a resounding ` no ' to genetically modified fish . 
I will vote accordingly this afternoon . 
Mr President , can I first of all join my colleagues in offering my sincere congratulations to Hugues Martin for his excellent report on aquaculture . 
This was , as other speakers have noted , an own-initiative report by the Fisheries Committee , and Mr Martin has put an enormous amount of work and effort into producing recommendations which will be welcomed by both consumers and producers alike . 
Mr Martin 's report has come at a crucial time in the fisheries sector . 
Aquaculture is now expanding exponentially against a background of rising consumer demand for fish in Europe , and of course of collapsing fish stocks in the traditional marine fishery . 
Marine aquaculture is a vitally important supplier of fish , molluscs and shellfish with a particular emphasis on farmed salmon , the quality of which is improving all the time . 
But there is also a burgeoning growth of the inland aquaculture industry which is enabling exciting progress to be made in the farming of cod , halibut , turbot and a host of other key species . 
The Fisheries Committee visited a fish farm at Rio Frio near Granada in Andalusia last November where they are even producing sturgeon and caviar . 
The complexity of this operation was quite extraordinary , but given that caviar is currently fetching about a third of the price of gold , one can readily understand why people are prepared to invest the necessary time and money to achieve these results . 
It is an industry which , as Mr Martin points out , may be able to provide jobs to some of the marine fishermen who face the loss of their livelihoods during the current cod crisis . 
But it is also an industry which requires , as Mr Ó Neachtain said earlier , to adhere to the strictest standards of compliance with best practice in the fields of the environment , welfare , health and food safety , particularly if consumer confidence in its products is to be increased . 
I believe Mr Martin sets out the parameters to achieve these objectives and I welcome his approach . 
Mr Martin 's recommendations that a lot more investment and effort should be put into research and development in the aquaculture sector are of fundamental importance , and I am delighted that the Commission endorsed that view this morning . 
As the rapporteur said himself in his introduction to this debate , this is a promising sector which , if handled properly , can cause great benefits to accrue to the EU in the future . 
This must be the best attended fisheries debate on record . 
It is vital that we recognise the importance of this very young and growing sector . 
Salmon accounts for nearly 40 % of Scottish food exports and Atlantic salmon farming is now worth more to the Scottish economy in financial terms than cattle and sheep farming combined . 
The report talks positively about the industry and future objectives . 
We need to consider long-term secure employment in the sector and to ensure product availability for consumers and an environmentally sound industry . 
Sustainable development has to be the watchword . 
The report looks at the importance of food safety and hygiene and also of research into alternatives rather than antibiotics . 
The disclosure documents which were published on 20 December 2002 , with a deadline of 8 January 2003 , initially made it impossible for the European Salmon Producers Group to comment , due to Christmas and the New Year . 
However , I am pleased that the Commission has given salmon producers more time to provide a response . 
It is critical that their voice is heard and I hope the Commission will ensure that Parliament and the Fisheries Committee are kept informed of the progress of this inquiry , especially as the estimated level of dumping by Chile is 29.7 % , in direct contravention of fair trade . 
Mr President , I welcome Mr Martin 's report on aquaculture which has the potential to provide a safe , relatively cheap source of good protein as well as to create jobs in the European Union . 
However as the rapporteur himself points out , more research is necessary in tackling the environmental problems which fish farming creates , particularly the disposal of waste - an average sized fish farm can produce as much waste as a small town . 
We also need to deal with the food hygiene aspects of fish farming , particularly the use of antibiotics , and to pursue further research into the damage that escapes from fish farms can do in terms of damaging the stocks of wild fish . 
Finally we have to examine the welfare of the fish actually farmed in the fish farms . 
If those issues are tackled , aquaculture can provide , as I said earlier , a good source of good food for our population as well as creating jobs . 
Mr President , with four Member States on the UN Security Council , including the chair , the EU should have the opportunity for real influence over current events and it would if it spoke with one voice . 
I wonder if Mr Solana would confirm that the meeting of four Security Council members , convened by the Greek Presidency ahead of Monday 's General Affairs Council , was intended to achieve a single EU position ? 
Will such meetings become regular events ? 
Or was it simply an attempt to stitch up the outcome of the Council without consulting the remaining Member States ? 
Perhaps I could also ask whether , in the regrettable absence of a coherent EU strategy in the run-up to a possible conflict with Iraq , he would undertake to ensure that the EU starts work now to plan a post-conflict strategy in the region ? 
When we last debated the situation in Iraq in early September , the world seemed on the brink of a unilateral military adventure led by the United States . 
Our main concerns then were to prevent the credibility of the United Nations and of international law being undermined by a pre-emptive strike not authorised by the UN , and to get weapons inspectors back into Iraq . 
In the event , the United States did go the UN route last autumn , and secured a unanimous vote for a tough Security Council resolution . 
The UN weapons inspectors have been readmitted to Iraq and are doing a professional and thorough job . 
So we Liberals salute the efforts of Colin Powell , Hans Blix , Mohamed Elbaradei and others for reinforcing the multilateral rule of law . 
Now that we are engaged on the proper path of international cooperation , we must make every effort to preserve that unity . 
However , following the presentation of Dr Blix 's report to the Security Council , there is a new danger - a danger that the credibility of the UN and international law risks being undermined , not by unilateral US action , but by the failure of the international community to ensure that Iraq rids itself of weapons of mass destruction once and for all . 
Dr Blix 's report to the UN provides a damning if not yet conclusive account of Iraq 's failure to cooperate fully with the UN weapons inspectors . 
Saddam Hussein is required by UN resolution 1441 to tell the truth , the whole truth and nothing but the truth . 
Instead , we have seen half-truths , prevarication and evasion . 
Dr Blix has opened the case for the prosecution with powerful arguments , though the evidence he has presented does not yet provide proof beyond all reasonable doubt . 
That is why Liberals in this House insist that the inspectors be allowed to continue their work . 
Dr Blix raises many disturbing questions in his report . 
Saddam Hussein clearly has a case to answer . 
A peaceful resolution to the crisis is still possible provided that Iraq now demonstrates a real willingness to cooperate with the UN in disarming . 
But with the inspectors due to report again on 14 February , there is little time left to him before the court of the international community has to reach a verdict . 
For Liberals , war will always be a last resort ; recourse to military action means that the instruments of international governance in which we invest such high hopes have failed . 
But equally , the international community has to stand ready to enforce its will , or the rule of law will be flouted . 
And there is plenty of evidence that Saddam Hussein is in breach of international law , most notably of the UN Convention on Genocide for the murder of half a million marsh Arabs . 
So let us forget talk of allowing Saddam Hussein to slip off quietly into the night for a comfortable exile in a third country . 
He is a war criminal and he must be brought before the International Criminal Court . 
To those Members who intend to convey to Saddam Hussein the message that impunity in exile is an acceptable way out , I say , to borrow the phrase of the anti-war coalition : not in our name . 
And I invite them to search their consciences . 
Is the best way to advance the cause of peace really to travel to Baghdad for a photo opportunity and risk being manipulated by the Iraqi regime ? 
Dr Blix told us yesterday that if Iraq chooses to cooperate , the inspectors can complete their work very soon . 
The inspectors must be given more time but if Dr Blix reports on 14 February that Iraq has failed to provide answers to his questions , and if the Security Council therefore determines that they are in material breach of the resolution , then the international community has a responsibility to act . 
If Iraq does not seize this final opportunity to cooperate , we must act together through the UN to enforce resolution 1441 . 
Mr President , we have just heard the latest act of that great opera ` Così fa Fatuzzo ' ! 
More seriously , I sit here as a representative of Scotland in the European Parliament , and we have had the opportunity to debate and vote on the substance of the issue of the Iraq emergency . 
Our colleagues in the Scottish Parliament have also done so . 
Those at Westminster , shamefully , will be denied that opportunity even if a decision is made by Tony Blair to commit their constituents to war in Iraq . 
My commitment to this Parliament 's resolution of this morning is unequivocal , above all as to its central point . 
There can be no lawful armed invention in Iraq without express United Nations authority . 
It is not enough for George W. Bush or Tony Blair to be satisfied that there has been a material breach of resolution 1441 . 
Only if the Security Council so finds , and only if it resolves that action is to be taken , may action lawfully occur . 
I am glad to see that the article by the Prime Minister in today 's Times effectively confirms that . 
We look to the United Nations inspectors to oversee effective disarmament by Iraq or to establish its clear breach of the resolution . 
They will need time for that . 
Firstly , it is a great pleasure to have the Commissioner here . 
I have been listening to the debate on the television in my office and I heard your answers to my colleagues . 
I want to follow up on Mr Fatuzzo 's question because it is in my report on information and communication technology and its impact on SMEs . 
I hope you will agree with one of the recommendations I made in the report , which is that there are many older people who have retired at 55-plus who would be delighted to return to employment if there was some financial incentive for them to do so . 
Information and communication technology is an area where we could use them , if there were financial incentives to train them . 
Afterwards , if they were working , it would be important not to tax them on their income because they have a pension as well . 
This would have two impacts . 
Firstly , it would allow older people to work and still use their skills . 
Therefore their disposable incomes would have an impact on rural economies because they would tend to spend that income . 
Secondly , we would not be so dependent on imported labour . 
Obviously a high birth rate is a good thing , but it would take years before this was reflected in the labour force . 
My recommendation would provide a quick solution . 
I should like to hear the Commissioner 's view on it . 
The Lisbon European Council dream for the EU to be the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010 can not be realised unless we stimulate and I mean stimulate SMEs . 
They create employment , wealth and security for the local community . 
What are the hindrances , difficulties and bottlenecks facing SMEs in the EU ? 
Why are they not growing as fast as those in the USA ? 
Excessive red tape , high direct and indirect taxation , expensive and inadequate access to loans and grants , insufficient allowance for ` upskilling ' workers and a lack of sponsored apprenticeships . 
Papas and Mamas in Europe in their fifties and sixties own and manage their businesses traditionally . 
They are reluctant to invest in new technology because , firstly , they suspect that the investment will not offer sufficient advantage . 
Secondly , they do not understand the scope and function of new technology in increasing productivity and expanding sales . 
Thirdly , they are concerned about security of supply , quality , payment and legal liability . 
My report has analysed the problems facing SMEs and offers a programme of action to stimulate them , so that they can compete globally . 
I would like Commissioner Liikanen to take very careful note of this summary , which is what I think the EU needs to do and do now . 
Review existing regulation of the e-economy and cut drastically whatever burdens small businesses . 
Reduce the administrative burdens on businesses by simplifying data collection , especially tax collection . 
Cut red tape , especially for self-employed people . 
Tackle on-line security issues by reinforcing the dependability and reliability of networks used by enterprises . 
Establish easy and affordable access to legal advice . 
Encourage cross-border trade to ensure a European e-economy . 
Use benchmarking to promote and establish best practice , to integrate SMEs in the e-economy . 
Allow Member States to offer low interest loans and tax incentives to support SMEs . 
I know Commissioner Monti might have a problem with that but I think it is essential . 
Establish close cooperation between business , the educational sector and government agencies in order to close the IT skills gap . 
One of the most important aspects is to offer financial incentives to the unemployed and the elderly , those who are retired . 
I am not asking Member States to change their rules on retirement , but I am asking for the EU to consider that people who are already retired should have financial incentives to train and acquire skills . 
When they work using those skills they should not be taxed at all , that is my preference . 
You might wish to impose a nominal tax , but preferably no tax at all . 
This actually reduces the import of labour , and also immediately pumps in money to people who are likely to spend their money in rural areas and therefore boost rural economies . 
To offer financial incentives to technical support companies to allow SMEs affordable access . 
This is one of the weakest things that we have in the EU : people are quite happy to buy equipment and technology , but where is the technical support if anything goes wrong ? 
Throughout this process there has been a lot of consensus and , for a change , most colleagues agree that action needs to be taken . 
That is why I accept all three amendments which have been tabled to this report . 
Over eight years ago a woman called Margot Cameron attended a surgery held by my colleague , Mr Miller . 
She said that nobody would listen to her . 
Her story so inspired my colleague that a petition was lodged with the European Parliament which showed that Margot was not alone . 
There are many Margots in the UK and across the EU with similar stories concerning problems with silicone . 
The petition has led to the Commission reclassifying breast implants as a Class III product under the Medical Devices Directive 93/42/EEC . 
Member States are to adopt and publish laws , regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this directive no later than 1 August 2003 . 
If I am not mistaken , this is the first time that such a petition has led to direct action by the Commission . 
I hope that more and more EU citizens will find solutions to their problems through this route . 
However , much as Parliament welcomes the Commission 's actions , we would like to take this matter still further . 
As more women choose to have implants - whether for purely cosmetic reasons , reconstruction after breast cancer or breast deformities - we must ensure that people make informed choices and we must put patient safety first . 
My report aims to answer both the legitimate concerns of thousands of women and the need to put patient safety first . 
Therefore , the report recommends Member States to take measures to increase and improve information for patients through tracking and surveillance , quality control and assurance . 
This includes all forms of direct advertising , such as in magazines and the use of ` before and after ' pictures . 
We must clamp down on this misleading advertising that is fuelling demand and which many women pin so much hope on . 
Perhaps ` before and after ' photographs of women who have suffered from ruptured implants would tell a very different side of the story to the readers of glossy magazines . 
I would like to see the 18-year age limit applied - apart from where there is medical need - in order to protect young women from making ill-informed beauty choices . 
Secondly , the need for information requires proper labelling and marketing , including health warnings explaining the health risks involved . 
For instance , women should be aware that breast implants will have to be replaced after a time period . 
It is a grave state of affairs that for too long cosmetic cowboys have got away with not explaining these simple facts . 
It is for this reason that we require the creation of an international register of accredited plastic surgeons . 
Finally , there must be responsible research . 
Before breast implants are placed on the market , manufacturers must collect clinical data on the characteristics and performance of their product . 
I hope that in the future more women will be able to make informed choices and they will not have to suffer in the way that so many women like Margot have in the past . 
I hope that the Commission will be able to report back to Parliament on how far the Member States have gone in implementing this reclassification , and will continue to monitor the issue of silicone-gel breast implants , always putting patient safety first . 
Mr President , I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all colleagues who have worked on this report for keeping this issue in the spotlight . 
The rapporteur told you a story about a woman called Margot Cameron who came to see me eight years ago . 
It is a success story , because here we are today looking at legislation that we are putting through this Parliament , which is great . 
I would like to tell you another story , which does not have such a happy ending . 
As I have said , this all happened eight years ago when Margot Cameron came to see me . 
We started campaigning and raised the issue at national level and finally took it to European level . 
By that time we had contacted groups throughout Europe and brought the issue to the Petitions Committee in 1998 , though looking around this room and I do not see anybody who was at that Committee . 
What happened as a result of that delay ? 
We let down not only the women who had signed that petition , but also a lot of women who had gone down the road of getting implants . 
This shows that we have to address these issues and problems more speedily when they arise and not let women suffer in the way they have in the past . 
Because they affect people 's health . 
If it were men getting the implants , there would be a ban tomorrow , but that is not happening because men are not getting them . 
Mr President , I am sorry to rise to speak against my successor on an issue like this , but it seems to me that , just as we rightly ask the Committee on Budgetary Control to look at the allegations about the reform process that have been raised in some newspapers over the weekend , we should also ask the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs to look urgently at this matter . 
What is at stake here is the possibility of the Americans coming back to us with a request for access to databases on European airline passengers which would ride roughshod over our own data protection legislation and indeed could form a major intrusion into the civil liberties of European citizens . 
It seems to me that , if the House does not take a position this week , then we are impotent . 
We ought to be stressing very strongly our opposition to what the Americans are requesting and our opposition to any potential agreement by the Commission to such a request . 
Mr President , I would first of all like to congratulate Mrs Ayuso González on the efforts she has made to achieve this successful outcome of a compromise . 
Even if she is not wholly satisfied with it , I think she has done a splendid job . 
It is just as well that we do not have mandatory requirements but I think that , given goodwill on all sides , we will see some progress in the application of biofuels . 
With the European Union already importing 50 % of its energy needs and this rising to 70 % by 2030 , it is important that we exploit all possible indigenous resources of energy as well as promoting greater diversity of energy sources . 
By developing biofuels and other renewable energies we are contributing to increased security of supply . 
In my constituency in Scotland , we have the materials and the know-how to be able to develop this industry and are eager to put these proposals into action . 
We are also hoping to improve our environment with better air quality and a reduction in greenhouse gases . 
In the blending of biofuels into conventional transport fuel we can introduce these changes in a simple way that will not require vehicles or filling stations to be adapted . 
Biofuels also promise to create new jobs in rural communities through crop production and in the construction and operation of processing plants . 
This will provide a well-needed boost to the flagging rural economies . 
But biofuels remain uncompetitive without significant government tax breaks . 
A 50 % reduction in tax to match conventional fuel prices will mean subtracting a hefty chunk from Member State exchequers . 
How many of our governments are prepared to lose this revenue ? 
We are also concerned that the proposals as they stand will not necessarily result in any major real environmental benefits : production methods for most biofuels use substantial amounts of energy and create high carbon dioxide emissions . 
We may also see higher inputs of chemical fertilisers and pesticides . 
Member States must decide to promote biofuels that give an overall cost-effective benefit to the environment . 
Most importantly we must also invest in research to improve the cost effectiveness and environmental benefits of biofuel crops in the future . 
Under these new regulations , which came into effect on 1 February this year , savage quota cuts have been linked to draconian limits on fishing effort . 
We are literally asking our fishermen to burn their boats . 
Scotland , where there are only 162 dedicated boats left in what used to be Europe 's biggest whitefish fleet , will bear the brunt of these cuts . 
If we scrap another 20 % , the fleet will fall below the critical mass needed to sustain jobs in our harbours , ports and processing factories . 
The industry will go into free fall . 
In addition , the majority of the remaining vessels will be ones that , because they are under 10 years old , are not eligible for decommissioning subsidy . 
These are the vessels on which the future of our whitefish fleet relies . 
These are the vessels on which we rely to catch cod , haddock , plaice and other whitefish once the stocks have recovered and the total allowable catch limits have been increased . 
Sadly , however , these are also the vessels with the biggest outstanding debts to the banks . 
It would not surprise me if many of them were forced into bankruptcy . 
The skippers and crews , who have often mortgaged their homes to raise the cash to build these boats , will lose not only their jobs and boats but also their homes . 
But Scotland is not the only country affected by these draconian measures . 
Ireland , Denmark , Belgium , the Netherlands and France have all suffered cuts . 
This is why the Committee on Fisheries voted unanimously - at least with only one abstention - to support this emergency resolution , the crux of which calls upon the Commission to adopt less drastic measures for the long-term recovery of cod which would secure the maximum number of jobs in the EU whitefish sector . 
The resolution also calls for the allocation of an additional EUR 150 million to compensate fishers , processors and ancillary workers affected by these conservation measures . 
I would suggest that EUR 48 million should be used for transitional funding to compensate fishermen and ancillary workers affected by the 15-days-at-sea fishing limits . 
I would hope that this aid could be found from the flexibility instrument . 
The balance of EUR 102 million should be reprogrammed out of the FIFG for the 2004 budget and should be targeted towards golden handshakes to induce fishers and ancillary workers to leave the industry , early retirement grants and retraining aid , as mentioned by Commissioner Fischler . 
One day last week in Scotland the entire whitefish fleet agreed to switch off its satellite tracking systems for 24 hours in silent protest at the catastrophe that has engulfed the communities involved . 
In the main fisheries inspection centre there is a large screen on which dozens of tiny lights indicate the position of each fishing boat in the North Sea and around the Scottish coast . 
These lights represent information beamed from the satellite-tracking systems . 
One by one the lights went out , signifying in a dramatic way the fate that awaits Scotland 's whitefish vessels . 
I hope the House will agree to provide this urgent and desperately needed support . 
Our fishing communities are crying out for help . 
Please heed their call . 
Mr President , in December 2002 the Fisheries Council agreed a compromise which effectively halved catches for the Scottish and UK whitefish fleets and stopped vessels going to sea for more than 15 days a month . 
These are drastic measures but far short of the all-out moratorium recommended to the Commission by its scientific advisors on fish stocks , ISIS . 
United Kingdom and Scottish ministers have been attacked for agreeing to the hard-fought compromise . 
At the time one of the fishing leaders commented that he doubted that the Archangel Gabriel could have got a better deal in the circumstances . 
Inevitably such actions have a socio-economic impact on the communities that depend on fishing for whitefish - especially cod . 
We must acknowledge this . 
I give my personal support to the resolution before us this evening . 
I also welcome the GBP 50 million compensation package approved by the Scottish Parliament last week and the related compensation packages in England , Wales and Northern Ireland . 
It is significant that we are discussing this issue as vital talks take place today and tomorrow in Brussels . 
Scottish and UK fishermen have joined fellow fishermen and civil servants from other EU countries at the European Commission 's Fisheries Advisory Committee . 
Talks will focus on a long-term cod recovery plan . 
I am delighted that the Fisheries Commissioner , Mr Fischler , will bring forward amendments to the current restrictions which have proved to be ` too rigid ' . 
However , the negotiations on the long-term recovery plan will be tough . 
We really have to think carefully about the right road to take . 
I want us to examine all possible options on effort control . 
This ducks the difficult issues posed by the need for stock recovery . 
We really need to rationalise the CFP and cod recovery . 
We must work in a cooperative manner with industry , ministers and other organisations to seek a common solution . 
The difficult task of arriving at a quota figure that is sustainable , yet scientifically credible , remains . 
Mr President , just this once I shall resist the temptation to lambast the Commission and the Council for their contributions to the crisis facing the whitefish sector in Scotland . 
I can assure fellow Members that there certainly is a major crisis of confidence in the European Union 's ability to manage fisheries at all . 
However , I will concentrate my remarks tonight on the main and most important purpose of the resolution which accompanies this question , that is , the social and economic consequences arising from the decisions made at the December Fisheries Council . 
Businesses are already feeling the pain from the interim cod recovery measures : not just the fish-catching sector , but whole communities . 
It is predicted that the long-term recovery plan will continue to inflict real economic and social hardship . 
I hope , therefore , that this House will unite in support of this resolution , calling for up to EUR 150 million of additional EU funding - and ` additional ' is the important word here . 
This amount would be in addition to Member States ' commitments , constituting a fund to help offset the widest possible range of economic and social consequences that the European Union fisheries management decision will inflict . 
My preference would be to aim for the use of the flexibility instrument for this . 
Not so long ago , as has been pointed out , the political will of this House and the Council , and the loss of fishing rights in Moroccan waters , brought about a similar , highly-concentrated downturn in activity . 
There will have to be detailed discussion of plans and priorities for the use of such a fund , but I certainly hope that this week we will take the first step towards setting it up . 
I call upon the UK Government to abandon its previous resistance to taking part in such a process . 
Mr President , my group believes that this amendment should not fall even if Amendment No 24 is adopted . 
Commissioner , Scottish fishermen and others north of 55o north are being restricted to 15 days , which they find difficult to accept , all the more when they see the industrial fishermen scooping up a million tonnes of sand eels and Norway pout , which are both the feedstock for their whitefish , and in many cases , immature haddock and other whitefish . 
How can you justify this to the fishermen of Scotland ? 
Mr President , I would like to pay tribute to our rapporteur , Mr Karas , who has shown superb judgement in reaching a broadly acceptable balance in this complex but vitally important directive . 
Our group was very concerned at any possibility of the directive failing for lack of consensus in Parliament or between Parliament and the Council . 
But the rapporteur has very successfully squared this very difficult circle . 
We in the PPE-DE Group are very pleased to support the compromise which the rapporteur and the Commissioner have engineered . 
I should , however , flag up some residual concerns which we still have . 
For example , compromise Amendments 4 and 12 give Member States the right to provide an option for coverage of biometric risks . 
Certainly this is only an option , but we are concerned that differences between Member States might in any way impede cross-border occupational pension funds and the ability to transfer employees together with their pension funds around the European Union . 
I would appreciate the Commissioner 's reassurance as to his understanding of the impact - or hopefully non-impact - of this option . 
The other concern regards the requirement for a register which also has to show in which Member States the institution concerned is operating . 
The rapporteur has assured me that , under the agreed amendment , no such register would be required if instead the institutions were ` authorised ' . 
Apart from these two matters , we are very pleased with the outcome which provides ample flexibility in , for example , how pension benefits are paid out . 
The lump sum payment will continue to be permitted . 
We are taking a major step forward in providing a Europe-wide single market in financial services . 
Mr Karas and Commissioner Bolkestein are to be congratulated for this achievement . 
Tomorrow we must ensure a resounding vote of support for this directive . 
Mr President , an eminent and noble friend of mine recounts how he became convinced of the need for regime change in Iraq when during the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait Iraqi soldiers put Kuwaiti prisoners of war into manholes , closed the covers , poured petrol through the air vents and set them alight . 
Few can be unaware of the barbarity of Saddam Hussein 's regime , either towards his own citizens or towards others , and for that reason I applaud the initiative of my friend and colleague , Mr Rutelli , in seeking to establish an international criminal tribunal for Iraq . 
Iraq has been under notice from the international community for over a decade and our patience on the issue of disarmament is running very thin . 
For Liberals in this House good relations between Europe and the United States of America are of huge importance . 
Our commitment to shared values , our commitment to economic and cultural ties reflected in our military alliance are things that we hold dear . 
We share America 's pain about the attacks of 11 September , and not just because European citizens were among those so brutally murdered . 
But we do not share the US President 's view that war against Iraq is justified at this stage . 
The report presented by Hans Blix to the UN Security Council last Friday does not make a case for immediate military action . 
On the contrary , he reported substantial disarmament and , while he recognised that cooperation was by no means immediate , he welcomed it as active , even proactive . 
His report showed that inspections are delivering tangible results for the weapons inspectors , sufficient to be given the additional months needed to complete Iraqi disarmament . 
To pull the rug from under Hans Blix 's feet and resort to war now , would be incomprehensible to moderate opinion around the world . 
I would ask our American friends to pause and reflect , if only for a few minutes , on some fundamental questions . 
Will a regime change in Iraq help bring to justice Al-Qaeda terrorists ? 
Will upheaval in a secular Arab state advance the cause of peace between Israel and Palestine ? 
And would not the cost of continued vigilance , resilience and patience be lower than the cost of war and reconstruction ? 
We must not underestimate the casualties of war , and not only the human casualties , though they would be many and costly , but the diplomatic casualties of which the collapse of the reconciliation talks in Cyprus is perhaps the first . 
As the crisis unfolds we are also approaching a critical moment for the future credibility of the United Nations and a world order based on the rule of law . 
The remarkable unity displayed by the international community last November in agreeing unanimously to Resolution 1441 is in danger of falling apart . 
We are witnessing the unedifying sight of the pro- and anti-war factions in the Security Council seeking to win over the undecided countries through bullying , bribery and even blackmail . 
The dignity and integrity of the United Nations is at stake . 
Having gone down the UN route to achieve Iraqi disarmament , a decision which my group warmly welcomed at the time , the United States must stick with the multilateral route . 
For the US to disregard a UN decision against early military action would deal a potentially fatal blow to the United Nations . 
It does not matter whether this decision is reached because of the failure to muster the required nine votes or because of a French or Russian veto . 
A veto one opposes will always be less reasonable than a veto one imposes . 
Yet rules are rules , and UN backing for military action must not be circumvented on the grounds that a veto is ` unreasonable ' . 
Mr President-in-Office , you have told us that war can still be avoided . 
The gates of the Temple of Janus have been unlocked , if not yet opened . 
Recognising that Iraq has only moved as far as it has because of the threat of military force , why not keep up the pressure until the process is completed ? 
If Saddam Hussein fails to meet the benchmarks in the resolution , then the diplomatic and inspections options will have been exhausted and the international community would have the moral authority and legitimacy to resort to war . 
In conclusion , it is claimed in London , Washington and Madrid that war could be short , swift and successful . 
With UN support this could indeed be the case , but without it , in a conflict which divides the international community , we could be on the brink of another Hundred Years War which could bring down regimes well beyond Iraq . 
Mr President , it was a matter of huge satisfaction , I am sure to yourself as well as to myself , that the resolution on the crisis in the fishing sector was carried by such a vast majority as 508 to 7 , with 27 abstentions . 
That really does represent a ringing endorsement by the European Parliament of the need to take decisive steps to give assistance to an industry which is in crisis and nowhere more so , as you well know , than in Scotland at the present time . 
I recently visited Eyemouth in the south of Scotland and will shortly visit both Oban and Campbeltown on the west coast . 
These are communities gravely affected by this crisis , but even worse is the situation in the north of Scotland . 
If we can not do things adequately to help that industry it will collapse . 
Thus even when the cod stocks are restored , there will be no viable industry to go out and catch them . 
This is a vital part of a sustainable diet for Europeans in the future . 
We must have an adequate fishing industry . 
We must support it properly and , if we put up the money , our government in the United Kingdom must take it up . 
It has been said that they will not go cap in hand to the Commission looking for money . 
This is not cap in hand . 
Mr President , the President-in-Office is quite right that we have to work on IMO relationships if we are going to get a reasonable agreement with other countries , but in fact the main thrust of the Council 's requirements from the Commission following the Prestige accident has been to come forward with new regulations at EU level , which are essentially based on the double hull requirement for all tankers carrying heavy fuel oils . 
Is the President aware that there are about 4 000 vessels of this type under 5 000 tonnes in the world , and less than 200 of them have double hulls ? 
How does he imagine we are going to replace those several thousand vessels in order that we can continue to provide Europe with its heavy fuel oils ? 
Mr President , this is not a just war . 
Liberal Democrats have consistently argued in this House that war would be justified only as a last resort , if inspections had failed and if it were explicitly authorised by the UN Security Council . 
We prefer the force of argument to the argument of force . 
Nonetheless , much as we abhor Saddam Hussein 's regime , we deeply regret that as we breakfasted in Brussels the bombs were falling on Baghdad . 
I hope , for the sake of the Iraqi people and for the sake of our troops doing their duty as professional soldiers , that this war will be as swift and as bloodless as possible . 
In the absence of UN legitimacy and moral authority there is a duty on the countries prosecuting this war to do so in a way that is consistent with international norms and conventions . 
That means not using disproportionate force , not using the cluster bombs that drop small mines around the place , not using the incapacitating gas such as that used in the theatre in Moscow , not using the devastating MOAB bomb where air burst and mushroom clouds caused mass destruction . 
They might also take care not to litter the Iraqi desert with depleted uranium . 
Once this war is over it will be imperative that the United States and the United Kingdom shoulder their responsibilities in rebuilding rapidly a peaceful , stable and prosperous Iraq for the inhabitants who have suffered so terribly under our sanctions regime . 
This will require the lifting of sanctions and immediate humanitarian aid . 
It means uniting the different communities of Iraq and the building of stable institutions to secure the future . 
Beyond that , they also need to establish a criminal tribunal for the crimes of the Iraqi regime and they must give back control of the oil fields to the Iraqi people . 
If those countries can bring the same conviction and determination to the solution of the Israeli-Palestine conflict and the same zeal to eliminating their own weapons of mass destruction , as they demand of the Iraqis , then we might make progress . 
It is important that the US does not act unilaterally in deciding the fate of Iraq . 
Once this war is over , the European Union must be a standard bearer for humanitarian values . 
We must be broadminded and generous and assume fully our responsibilities in the rebuilding of Iraq . 
This is not the moment to haggle with the USA over the cost of reconstruction . 
Europe must play its part with no hidden agenda . 
As our heads of state and government meet this weekend they must discuss how we can limit the economic fallout of the war for Europe 's economy , how the ECB can stand ready to act swiftly to restore confidence in our currency if needed , and how governments can show a renewed commitment to the reforms needed to revive Europe 's economy . 
They must also discuss , and be prepared to discuss when the crisis is over , why Europe has failed over Iraq . 
If there is a lesson to be learned from this crisis in London , Paris , Berlin and Madrid , it is that if we had a common foreign and security policy our world view would prevail . 
Mr President , the war with Iraq inevitably overshadowed the Council 's important economic reform agenda . 
It is only natural that , at such a time , economic issues should take second place to matters of life and death . 
However , given the negative economic impact that the conflict could have on the Union 's economy , we must not take our eyes off the ball and let the economic reforms that are needed to revitalise our economy fall further behind . 
So before turning to the conflict with Iraq , I will say a few words about economic reform . 
The truth is that the process of economic reform is running into the sand ; with the European Union set to enlarge to 25 countries , we will have to run just to stand still . 
I should like to cite just three examples . 
First , at 1.9 % of GDP , our investment in research and development is well below levels in the USA and Japan , and with only two of the accession countries spending more than 1 % of GDP on research and development , we will be hard pressed to reach the 3 % Lisbon target by 2010 . 
My second example is taken from the Barcelona Council , where Europe 's leaders committed themselves to cutting the percentage of single market laws not yet implemented to less than 1.5 % - instead , the proportion rose last year to over 2 % . 
As the incoming Member States will naturally face some teething problems in implementing law in the early years , this implementation deficit is in danger of growing further if we do not redouble our efforts . 
Progress will certainly not be achieved if others emulate the tactics used by Mr Berlusconi in his shameful attempt to defend illegal milk subsidies at the expense of a deal on the taxation of savings . 
That hardly augurs well for the Italian presidency . 
And third : raising levels of employment . 
On the issue of jobs , the Council appears to have followed the age-old practice : ` If in doubt , create a task force ' . 
I wish Wim Kok well in his work , but it is hard to see what answers he can come up with which are better than the tried and trusted recipe of reducing the burden of taxes on labour and increasing market flexibility . 
On Iraq , I welcome the forward-looking nature of the European Council conclusions , brokered by the President-in-Office , and their focus on humanitarian assistance , on rebuilding Iraq and the central role to be played in this by the United Nations . 
Humanitarian aid must get through . 
We see from the situation in Basra just how important that is . 
The horror transmitted through our television screens shows us just how necessary it is to get our relief agencies in and working . 
I welcome Mr Prodi 's proposal for EUR 3 million of immediate humanitarian aid through the Red Cross . 
Liberal Democrats will support the rapid approval by our House of your request for the release of a further EUR 70 million from the emergency budget reserve . 
The EU has been damaged by the divisions of recent weeks . 
This could presage a new effort to heal the political wounds , but it is hard not to agree with the Luxembourg Prime Minister when he says that problems can not be resolved unless they are discussed . 
I agree with the Council that we need to strengthen transatlantic relations . 
Our dialogue must be extended to cover reform of the United Nations and the role of international law , but the United States must accept that nothing durable can be established without institutions and rules . 
My group also welcomes Belgium 's proposal for a ministerial meeting on North Korea . 
If the situation in Iraq had been discussed at the Seville Summit - as Mr Verhofstadt proposed - we might not be at sixes and sevens today . 
We must wait and see whether 2003 is an annus mirabilis or an annus horribilis for the European Union , but since we are now in the Year of the Goat , I would congratulate the Greek Presidency on its tenacity , persistence and determination in pushing through its agenda . 
In the absence of a new agreement , a significant number of Community vessels from Galicia , Andalucia and Portugal that operated within this framework were forced to stop their fishing activities . 
Recognising the difficulties caused by the lack of any new fisheries agreement , the Community agreed to set aside over EUR 190 million to promote the conversion of fishing vessels that had operated in Moroccan waters . 
94.6 % of this money was set aside for Spain , and the rest for Portugal . 
However , when the Prestige disaster occurred last November and the shores of Galicia were covered in layers of black oil , we began to search for emergency aid to alleviate the catastrophic suffering of the fishing communities in this region . 
We discovered that EUR 30 million of the money set aside to deal with the Moroccan problem was , at that point , still unspent . 
The European Parliament therefore agreed at its plenary session in December 2002 that we should immediately re-programme this money to help with the Prestige disaster in Galicia . 
Nevertheless , the fact that the Moroccan fund had been underspent raised some important questions . 
At a meeting of the Committee on Fisheries in February 2003 , representatives of the industry and of the Andalucian regional government described the problems they encountered in the implementation of this Regulation . 
It quickly became clear that the criteria according to which fishermen could claim this aid was far too complex and had proven to be so rigid that very few fisherman had in fact managed to benefit from any of this money . 
Industry representatives told our Committee that potential beneficiaries are losing out on compensation measures due to overly stringent Commission deadlines and rules . 
For example , public aid is granted only to fishermen who have undertaken to scrap vessels , change the purpose of their vessels , or agreed to the permanent transfer of a vessel to a third country through joint venture agreements . 
In particular , crew members who have lost their jobs can not apply for the individual premium of EUR 12 000 unless the owner decides to transfer or scrap the vessel . 
This means that many fishermen living in the regions which were affected by the failure of the Morocco agreement have still not received any financial help . 
I need hardly remind the House that in our March 2003 plenary session in Strasbourg two weeks ago , by an overwhelming majority of 507 votes in favour to 6 votes against , the European Parliament supported a resolution proposing EUR 150 million to be paid as compensation to fisherman affected by the draconian cod recovery measures now in place in the Irish Sea and the North Sea . 
I know that we are still negotiating with the Commission and the Council as to where this emergency aid might come from , but I trust that we are simply not going to repeat the mistakes that were made with the Moroccan fund . 
We must ensure that in future when we identify the need for urgent aid to the fisheries sector , it is delivered in a way that is both fairly targeted and quickly completed . 
Let us make sure that there is a minimum of red tape and a minimum of bureaucracy . 
I just returned this afternoon from Galicia where I attended meetings and site visits with members of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism to see for ourselves the clean-up operation in the wake of the Prestige disaster . 
We heard all too vividly the desperate plight of the fishing communities who had been forced to tie up their boats , through no fault of their own , since last November . 
Despite the fact that this House agreed to re-programme EUR 30 million last December , none of that money has so far been released . 
Who is working on the details of this aid package ? 
Where are the log jams ? 
Let us cut the red tape and get the aid moving ! 
Let us learn from these lessons that have been identified under the Morocco agreement and get things right in the future . 
The statistics are quite horrifying - 90 % of the world 's HIV virus carriers live in developing countries and 95 % of TB sufferers are in developing countries . 
So clearly , a significant amount of work is required to be done to tackle these problems . 
It is important that any new work - or the consolidation and coordination of existing work - in the field of research into these diseases must be focused upon the needs and conditions existing in developing countries . 
That is the idea behind the proposal . 
I am glad to see that Parliament , at various stages , has spelled out how this project could and should be managed and how the progress can and will - I hope - be reported . 
If we have to apply a total of EUR 600 million as this project envisages - EUR 200 million from the EU , EUR 200 million from existing Member State funds and , hopefully , EUR 200 million from other donors and industry - then it is important that it be spent wisely and successfully . 
I would hope that since a significant proportion of that is public funding - taxpayer 's money - the ownership of new procedures can remain with the public sector and be made available cheaply to the people who really need it most . 
Mr President , it is a practice both in trade union and in other negotiations to use one 's strength at a time when it is calculated to cause the most difficulty for those with whom one is in dispute . 
But in Parliament we rarely have days or votes of such significance as today . 
The action being threatened by the unions does not reflect fairly the mutual respect which exists within the House between the different partners , or indeed the good relations that we have generally enjoyed . 
You are right to proceed with our business and I would appeal to the staff of the House to assist us in carrying through today 's historic task with the maximum goodwill on their part . 
To participate in peacefully reuniting a once fractured Europe is a remarkable privilege . 
I voted for this with great satisfaction today . 
As a representative of the Scottish National Party , I was also very conscious that many small countries , which only recently re-established their independence , were among those we voted in today . 
By contrast , however , Scotland , one of the most ancient small nations in Europe , remains no more than a ` region ' of a Member State as things are viewed from Brussels . 
In this new enlarged Europe , Scotland must surely aspire to more than that . 
The people of Scotland will pass a judgement about that on 1 May in the Scottish Parliamentary election . 
As the European Convention proceeds towards its conclusion , it seems clear that a future constitution will place no barrier in the way of internal enlargement . 
I hope this process will commence soon . 
Mr President , regrettably this directive was not referred to the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy . 
The proposed directive ` on setting standards of quality and safety for the donation , procurement , testing , storage and distribution of human tissues and cells ' is a very important piece of legislation and much to be welcomed . 
I rehearsed the full title of this directive because it is important to recognise what it does encompass and what it does not encompass . 
Specifically , recital 6 states : ` this Directive does not cover research using human tissues and cells ' . 
It is a public health measure under Article 152 of the Treaty . 
Unfortunately , and quite unacceptably , the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy 's Amendment 7 proposes to change recital 6 to : ` this directive also covers research using human tissues and cells ' . 
In similar vein , its Amendment 19 to Article 2 ( 1 ) , proposes to delete the limiting phrase ` for application to the human body ' , thus opening the directive 's full provisions to in vitro research in laboratories , or even school rooms , where no application to the human body is involved . 
I do not have time to go into all the other problems with this report . 
There are technical difficulties concerned with consent by donors , and anonymity of donors . 
There are highly questionable forays into areas of ethics which are irrelevant for the purpose and legal basis of this directive . 
Even the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has seen fit to insert the legally undefinable term ` fundamental ethical principles ' into what purports to be a legal legislative text . 
Very importantly , there are attempts to impose European prohibitions on ethical aspects of research and therapy which are clearly the subject of the subsidiarity principle and which it must remain the right of Member States to decide . 
I have the greatest regard for my colleague , Mr Liese , and I accept his assurances that he tried to maintain a balanced approach to this subject . 
Unfortunately , the result contains many unacceptable points . 
Only if these are eliminated between now and the final vote will it be possible for me to support his report . 
Madam President , the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy welcomes this directive . 
We did , however , in our consideration of it , identify certain shortcomings which , I am glad to say , will be rectified by many of the proposed amendments in Mr Nobilia 's report . 
I am pleased therefore that the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection has accepted the gist of our proposal for a tiered derogation procedure which such producers can invoke . 
We also proposed a sunset clause so that the comitology procedure will automatically lapse after eight years and be renewed only if appropriate at that time . 
This is based on the procedure first introduced in the financial services area in order for Parliament to keep some measure of control over the burgeoning comitology systems which are developing in the European Union . 
On behalf of the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy I am pleased to recommend support for Mr Nobilia 's report but would suggest that Amendments 5 , 15 , 20 , 33 and 40 unduly overlap with other relevant legislation and should be rejected . 
Nor can we support the amendments lodged by the Verts/ALE Group at the last minute . 
Otherwise we can wholeheartedly support Mr Nobilia 's report . 
Mr President , like all my group I essentially welcome this proposal and the opportunity to speak on its behalf . 
As my friend Mr Lannoye said , it is , if not ` too little , too late ' , at any rate ` not very much and rather late ' . 
But it is a step in the right direction and it is very important to establish the polluter pays principle . 
After all , most human activities have some impact on the environment . 
The issue is who tidies up afterwards - the person who causes it or somebody else ? 
Like many members of this House I have received powerful representations from local authorities in my own constituency in Scotland , saying that if this directive is not carried local authorities and other public bodies will continue to have to deal , out of general tax revenues , with the problems which other people ought either to have prevented in the first place or be dealing with at present . 
It is worth reminding ourselves that the polluter pays principle is only half the story . 
The fact of the matter is that those who pollute are engaged in economic activities producing goods or services which other people want to buy , presumably at the price at which they are offered . 
If the polluter does not pay , the problem is that the price is too low and consumers get a kind of a free lunch for which they then have to pay afterwards in their capacity as taxpayers . 
With regard to that issue , I have had much doubt throughout the debates about the so-called state-of-the-art and permit defences , as there is a rationale which says that people should be able to work closely to the terms of , for example , a carefully designed permit and thereby guarantee themselves against liability . 
Mr President , SARS poses a huge challenge to the EU and the applicant states and , as the minister says , we do not know what causes the virus . 
As the global death toll rises and infection increases in China , there have also been cases in the EU , although the disease would appear to be very much under control here . 
However , 6 % of people who contract SARS will die . 
To take the example of one survivor , Dr Henry Likyuen Chan was only 34 years old , but he had a high fever , was racked with a cough and when taking a shower felt as if he was running a marathon . 
The concept of an EU centre for disease control and prevention similar to the US model in Atlanta , which is not a new concept and is being promoted through the public health programme , goes some way towards coordination . 
However , it will take until 2005 to have such an agency up and running . 
Is this too little too late ? 
It may be the right step to take for the future but it is very important for the Council to be open about the extra resources that it will make available for the centre , to deal not just with SARS but also with the issues surrounding TB , smallpox and bio-terrorism . 
The added value of working together is what the EU is all about in public health policy , but this all comes at a cost and we should be very open about that . 
As we know , and he has stated , the source of this terrible mutant virus is still to be identified and we need to know more about what causes it . 
Sadly , SARS is here and it is here to stay . 
We can do everything possible through research , early warning systems , disease control centres , education and information , but this should be a wake-up call to everyone concerned with public health . 
We need to work together across the EU and the globe to protect public health in the future and we must think seriously about how to do this . 
Mr President , although many of us opposed the basis for the recent war with Iraq , we can unite in rejoicing at the fall of the brutal dictator Saddam Hussein . 
The Iraqi people can now rebuild their country as a free democracy , at peace with its neighbours and using its immense natural resources to raise the standard of living . 
The question for Europe today is how to unite in rebuilding Iraq so that we can overcome our previous division . 
We must project Europe 's voice with the unity of a choir singing from the same hymn sheet , rather than the dissonance of an unruly cacophony . 
The informal meeting of foreign ministers leaves me cautiously optimistic . 
I welcome the proposals from the Commission and the Greek Presidency to guide our action in post-war Iraq . 
While we may not yet have the capacity to wage war in defence of our values , we have long experience at winning the peace . 
My group favours an active role for Europe in rebuilding Iraq , but for that we need the legitimacy which can come only from another UN resolution . 
Yet the draft resolution of the US , the UK and Spain falls far short of either . 
You can not give a vital role to the UN simply by proclaiming it in a recital to a Security Council resolution . 
A vital role means that rebuilding Iraq would not be not possible without the UN ; it entails not endorsing for a 12-month period the authority of the self-declared occupying powers , with the right to direct the disbursement of funds from Iraqi oil revenues . 
A vital role for the UN means its involvement in setting up , as soon as possible , a legitimate and representative government of Iraqis , in lifting sanctions and in providing urgent humanitarian aid . 
Why have running water and electricity not yet been restored ? 
How many must die before we get medical supplies into hospitals and clean up the unexploded ordnance ? 
Where are the police that the UN could send to help restore law and order ? 
We need to give the people of Iraq a better life or their hardship will become anger towards the occupying powers . 
A vital or central role for the UN also means readmitting Hans Blix and his weapons inspectors to verify what has happened to the weapons of mass destruction which remain unaccounted for . 
Their existence and the claim that they could be used within 45 minutes were central to the case for war . 
The weapons inspectors have the international legitimacy and credibility to complete the job they were asked to do , in cooperation with American and British forces on the ground . 
The tragic events of Monday night in Saudi Arabia remind us of the continuing instability in the region . 
That is why my group welcomes the visit of Colin Powell , marking the re-engagement of the United States in the peace process . 
For lasting peace in the region and a successful rebuilding of Iraq , we must simultaneously take forward the Quartet 's roadmap for peace in Israel and Palestine . 
Mr President , on the voting slip which we have in front of us it says that Amendment No 85 is identical to Amendment No 99 . 
I should like to point out that this is not actually the case . 
The two amendments are significantly different , especially in relation to the Nuclear Conventions of Paris and Vienna . 
In Amendment No 85 , the paragraph which is under the IMO provisions is not under the nuclear provisions . 
In Amendment No 99 , it is . 
I know this is slightly confusing , but it is a confusing directive ! 
They are not the same and therefore should not be voted as identical amendments . 
This directive gives an opportunity to better identify and assign responsibility and should follow the ` polluter pays ' principle . 
I opposed committee Amendment No 37 , which is contrary to that principle and which would place unacceptable burdens on local authorities and also be potentially disastrous for local economies . 
Particularly in the UK , governments have been guilty of seeking to leave local authorities to pick up the cost of EU legislation - such as disposal of refrigeration equipment - and blaming ` Brussels ' . 
The costs of implementing this directive must not be inflicted unfairly upon hard-pressed local authority budgets , either through approving a faulty directive or as a result of ultimately flawed implementation by government . 
The EPLP does not , however , support the inclusion of GMOs in this directive as , firstly , we believe it is the wrong directive and , secondly , there is existing legislation on this topic and this could give rise to confusion among potential operators as to which legislation is applicable . 
Mr President , 18 months ago when I had the honour to serve as chairman of the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs , this House adopted a resolution on judicial cooperation between the Union and the USA . 
That resolution set out four key requirements for any extradition agreement : full respect for the European Convention on Human Rights ; no extradition of persons likely to face military tribunals ; no extradition if the accused risks facing the death penalty ; and that any measures affecting data protection should be proportionate , effective and time-limited . 
However , the Liberal Democrats in this House insist that anti-terrorism measures must always respect fundamental rights and be subject to proper democratic oversight and control . 
Striking the right balance is essential to success in fighting those who seek to undermine the fabric of democratic societies . 
The current draft agreements between the EU and the US on extradition and legal cooperation must not escape the parliamentary scrutiny provided for in our Treaties . 
In France , the Conseil d'Etat has refused the Assemblée Nationale the right to approve such agreements : so unless the Council consults us , what parliamentary scrutiny exists in the European Union ? 
These agreements on extradition and legal co-operation are very ambitious . 
The United States declines to sign the UN conventions on cybercrime , on crime prevention and on the International Criminal Court . 
In the Union , Member States have not yet ratified our decision on money laundering or the framework directive on terrorism . 
Yet these proposals cover the whole Palermo agenda . 
They should at the very least provide for the establishment of bodies to oversee their operation and provide feedback . 
I can only regret that this agreement makes no reference to the International Criminal Court . 
I would urge the Council to rectify this . 
The Council must seek to reconcile the potential conflict between a request from the ICC to surrender a person to the court and the obligation stemming from this extradition agreement . 
The slide away from democracy can start with the best of intentions . 
Mr President , on a point of order , I hope I may be forgiven for raising two relatively domestic matters . 
It is really not appropriate to ask MEPs or their assistants to work in these conditions . 
The air conditioning system does not appear to be working properly . 
We set standards all the time which we expect other people to live up to , but the standards in these premises are not adequate . 
It is not fair to ask our colleagues and employees to work in conditions like that . 
Could we not get something done to improve it ? 
Secondly , I can not be the only one who is increasingly distressed by the amount of often off-colour or even obscene unsolicited email that keeps pouring through the system . 
Again , it adds an awful lot of work to colleagues who have to delete it every day . 
I hope we can get something done to make the email system work as it is intended to do - for effective communication and not for that sort of fearful junk ! 
Mr President , I only partly agree with Mr Krarup . 
I agree with him in the sense that there is a democratic crisis . 
This Parliament is in a crisis because we come under permanent attack by many of the public media in all the Member States for the indefensible state in which we are made to work at the moment . 
We all know that people in this House doing exactly the same job are paid a huge range of different salaries for it . 
We are greatly indebted to Mr Rothley for bringing us so far down the road . 
We must take the step that will make it possible for this Parliament to stand tall and stand legitimate with a proper scheme on a common salary and a common , defensible and transparent expenses regime . 
Putting it quite simply , I would like to see to it that we have a system that can be understood , that pays people the costs they incur and that pays us all a fair day 's wage for a fair day 's work . 
It should be slightly smaller but it would just have been gesture politics to retable the amendment we put in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market since it was obviously not going to be carried . 
I respectfully disagree with Mr Rothley on the issue of privileges and immunities . 
I would like to see it in the Statute in something like the way he suggests , but frankly the provisions there strike me as much too sweeping , covering far too much . 
Immunity in these Berlusconi days is a difficult concept and we should not challenge our electorate . 
With these crucial amendments , the resolution can be carried . 
Finally , with great respect to everybody here , I do not regard myself here as an employee of the European Union : I am a representative of my constituents . 
I do not ever wish to pay tax on my income at a different level or on a different basis from my constituents . 
The permissive Belgian compromise that would let Member States bring a Member 's taxation liability to the level of his constituents is a good one . 
I hope that we can find a way of making it legally valid . 
Mr President , this report is all about bringing respect back to this House . 
We should not forget that this is only the halfway stage , because when this report leaves here it has to be approved by the Council . 
The principle behind this report is good : equal pay for equal work . 
However , I have to ask whether we are all equal . 
According to some of the amendments tabled , I do not think we are . 
One of the amendments talks about the considerable economic differences which exist between the existing Member States and the accession countries . 
Is it not the case that there are considerable economic differences even within the 15 Member States ? 
So when we set out the principle of equal pay for equal work , the 10 accession countries do not fit into that principle . 
So we have got this wrong . 
The big issue for me is the whole question of the expenses . 
I congratulate the working group on coming up with a formula . 
Transparency in expenses is essential . 
We must stick to the principle of travel at cost . 
That is an issue which is in our hands and we can approve it without going to the Council . 
Let us not squander it and let us not waste it . 
Mr President , by and large the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy goes along with the Commission proposal and the amendments of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism . 
One concerned the question of ice-breaking ships carrying fuel in the Baltic . 
The other was the question of the 600 to 5 000 tonne tankers which we were concerned would not be available . 
We were surprised at this figure of 25.7 API that was pulled out for the definition of heavy crude oil . 
I understand the Council has also gone for this figure of 25.7 , which will probably cause certain troubles , especially in the North Sea oil fields . 
Be that as it may . 
Having said that , this will not avoid the next spillage of oil . 
Until we can get the IMO on board with these sorts of standards we will still get Prestiges leaving a non-EU port , plying past the EU to a non-EU port with a non-EU flag . 
Those are the problems we have to face . 
We really must get the IMO to come to terms with these standards . 
When the representative of the Commission first presented this report to the Committee on Fisheries , he stated that the subject was so technical ( and even routine ) that we may even find it boring . 
Devising and implementing technical measures aimed at protecting and conserving young fish is of crucial long-term importance to the fishing industry , as well as to the aim of achieving sustainability in fisheries . 
If technical measures are unsuccessful , or are seen to be applied inequitably between fishing nations or types of fishery in a particular area , then the ultimate objective will not be met . 
The timing of this particular proposal , on the heels of the December Fisheries Council and its decisions on CFP reform and interim cod recovery measures , provides an opportunity for the Commission and the Council to regain some of the credibility which currently is severely lacking - certainly around northern fishing nations such as Scotland and Ireland . 
The amendments which were approved by the committee - and which I hope will be endorsed by the whole House tomorrow - include two , which simply correct inaccurate references in the Commission 's text . 
Of the others , Amendment No 2 seeks to ensure that the Council will have an input to the detailed rules in connection with the conditions under which combinations of net sizes may be carried . 
This is an area which the Commissioner will know has caused significant difficulty under the current regulation . 
It is unlikely that unilateral rewriting of such important rules by the Commission will help to restore any faith in the process . 
Amendment No 4 addresses another - in my view - unacceptable anomaly , namely the provision which would allow those fishermen using the very smallest of mesh sizes in industrial fisheries for sandeel , for example , to retain undersized fish . 
The rationale that it is somehow acceptable to land undersized fish , provided it is not sold for human consumption , is totally impossible to justify to those involved in the whitefish sector who use the largest of mesh sizes , while suffering draconian cuts in their quotas and days at sea . 
A number of amendments which were lost in committee have been retabled by my group . 
I seek full support for their inclusion tomorrow . 
The proposed establishment of Regional Advisory Councils , which was agreed , albeit in a watered-down form , as part of the reformed CFP , provides an ideal forum in which to involve stakeholders and to harness existing expertise . 
Unless RACs are to be given meaningful work to do , they will quickly become regarded as pointless talking-shops . 
Equally , if technical measures are to be supported and implemented by fishermen , it is essential that they accept that particular measures are appropriate to the task . 
It seems to me that this proposal provides the ideal opportunity to achieve these two worthwhile ends - the meaningful involvement of experts through RACs , and therefore a greater likelihood that technical measures will be effective and appropriate to a particular fishing zone . 
Further amendments address the question of Member States ' ability to take action , in relation to their own fleets , which exceeds the minimum required under EU regulation . 
The current version of the technical measures allows for this provision . 
It is mysterious , in my view , that this provision has somehow disappeared without adequate explanation from the new proposal . 
The challenge currently facing EU fisheries management is to somehow recover from a major crisis in confidence . 
Certainly in Scotland there is such a crisis , which has led my own political party , the SNP - a pro-European party - to commit itself to campaign for the scrapping of the CFP as currently formulated . 
This week in the Westminster Parliament , a Bill will be tabled calling for UK withdrawal from the CFP . 
Unless a dramatic change in attitude is forthcoming , such demonstrations of disgust with the process will continue to be expressed . 
I hope that the Commission can accept that there is a need for it to take the lead in changing the perceived ` we know best ' attitude , which can lead to such resentment . 
Mr President , we are well aware in this House that many thousands of fishermen , processors and ancillary workers have suffered severe hardship as a result of the cod recovery proposals agreed by the Council last December . 
The whitefish fleet in Ireland and the UK in particular have been hardest hit , being forced to tie up their boats for half of every month and having their quotas cut by more than 50 % on the days that they can fish . 
These interim measures have been in place since 1 February this year and yet not a single penny in compensation has been paid to any of those affected by the cuts . 
It was salutary to note that Commissioner Fischler himself saw the need to call upon the Member States to live up to their responsibilities and apply for aid from the fisheries budget . 
He said that of the EUR 3.7 billion in the budget to 2006 , only 3 % had been earmarked for socio-economic aid , despite the obvious hardship suffered by many fishermen . 
In fact , in the UK the figure is 0 % , which is a shameful indictment of the UK Government . 
Its failure to apply for this aid or indeed , to submit proposals for emergency aid from the EUR 150 million voted by a huge majority in this House in March , amounts to a naked betrayal of our fishing sector in their time of need . 
No wonder more than 230 UK fishermen have applied to scrap their vessels . 
But decommissioning on such a scale , on top of the 20 % who scrapped their vessels last year , could take the UK whitefish fleet below the critical mass needed to support the harbour workers , ancillary staff and processors on whom the remaining fishermen rely . 
If they go , the whole industry will collapse . 
And it is against this background that I must express my surprise at the Commission 's position on the Irish Box . 
It seems to me to be an utter paradox that the Commission can , on the one hand , support such a draconian regime to enable cod and other whitefish stocks to recover , while at the same time calling for the effective dismantling of the Irish Box . 
The Irish Box is one of the most important nursery and spawning grounds in European waters . 
But the Irish , British , French and Spanish fleets have been fishing in the Irish Box for years . 
Now I am well aware that our Spanish friends are dissatisfied with the current arrangements which restrict access to only 40 of their trawlers . 
However , it is worth noting that the 40 Spanish trawlers fishing in this zone at any given time are all massive 25-metre plus vessels , often twice the size of local Irish boats . 
The problem is , there are a further 120 massive Spanish trawlers waiting just south of the Irish Box , keen to gain access , but I do not see hundreds of Greek or Italian trawlers demanding access to the Irish Box ! 
It is also worth noting that the same proposal for a Council regulation in Western Waters would burst open the 200 mile economic exclusion zone around the Azores . 
Again this is an area of high sensitivity which has supported generations of local Portuguese fishermen , often braving the wild Atlantic gales in tiny , open wooden boats . 
Simply to throw these waters open to giant trawlers from Spain or anywhere else would be catastrophic both for conservation of fish stocks and for the preservation of jobs in the fragile Azorean fleet . 
I support my Spanish colleagues in many ways . 
I have worked hard to find compensation for the damage caused by the oil tanker Prestige . 
I have supported the international third-country agreements which are of such benefit and importance to the Andalucian and Galician fleets . 
But I can not stand idly by and watch the destruction of key conservation zones around the Azores and in the Irish Box , simply because our Spanish friends and only our Spanish friends wish to catch more fish in these waters . 
To accept this argument would be to fly in the face of conservation policy . 
Our job as parliamentarians , and my job as Chairman of the Committee on Fisheries , is to ensure that fish stocks are allowed to recover . 
Mr President , I should also like to add my support to what has already been said on the concept of regional advisory councils . 
They are essential to provide a dialogue with all interested sectors . 
However , I would like to concentrate on what is now called the ` Stevenson report ' . 
I would like to thank Mr Ó Neachtain for all his work on what was originally his report . 
I regret that he had to move his name from the report but I also understand that he was left with no option . 
The proposal from the Council seeks to put in place a new regime for fishing effort in Atlantic waters and a system of fishing effort management , concerning certain Community fishing areas and resources . 
However , on the one hand it would appear that the proposal looks for a management instrument to ensure no increase in fishing efforts , but on the other hand the issue of access of Spanish vessels into what is known as the ` Irish Box ' becomes a matter of real concern . 
The whole issue rests on the question of access to the Irish Box - water within 50 miles of the Irish coast . 
This area is an important spawning ground , rich in juvenile fish . 
This sensitive biological area deserves protection . 
Thus it is vital that the EU restricts the fishing effort in the Irish Box in order that future generations can enjoy a sustainable fisheries . 
The Irish Box was specially recognised as an area of biological sensitivity . 
However , this report as it stands , instead of applying the policy of sustainable development , would open up this area of sensitivity to over-exploitation . 
As reports in the Irish Examiner note , fishermen are primarily concerned that fish stocks will be decimated if the Spanish fleet gains unlimited access to the Irish Box . 
Even the Irish Marine Minister expressed his frustration that he could not get the European Commission to give its opinion on the legal status of the Irish Box . 
I understand that there has now been some communication in this matter and that there is tentative compromise on the table , although the Irish and Spanish ministers are diametrically opposed . 
I too share my Irish colleagues ' concerns that , as Mr Ó Neachtain stated in the Irish Examiner , we could find these waters completely fished-out in no time at all . 
I would therefore like to ask colleagues to recognise the importance of boxes in scientifically sensitive areas . 
I understand that this is not just a north versus south issue . 
My colleagues from Portugal also value the sensitivity of boxes , especially concerning the Azores . 
If we are truly serious about a common fisheries policy , I believe that boxes are an important management tool , in recognition of biologically sensitive areas . 
This is not about discrimination . 
I hope that colleagues will support the amendments tabled , especially Amendment No 20 , and make sure that the vision Mr Ó Neachtain had is seen through in this report . 
Mr President , I should like to ask for clarification of the Commissioner 's remarks in relation to regional advisory councils . 
In his earlier statement he said that RACs had been established in the basic regulation , that they can be consulted , but there was not a general obligation and indeed there are legal obstacles to that . 
Now he has said that regional advisory councils will be consulted where there is a regional aspect to a proposal . 
In general , whose prerogative is it to decide when and on what RACs will be consulted . 
In particular , does he accept that technical measures , if they are to be meaningful , must be tailored to regions , and that therefore there is a regional aspect . 
Therefore will or will not regional advisory councils be consulted on this technical measures report ? 
However , it is for the Convention , not its President , to confirm the existence or not of a consensus , and if the Convention needs a little more time to complete its work , so be it . 
Mr Giscard d'Estaing likes to say that his Constitution will last unchanged for 50 years , but unless a durable consensus is reflected in the final text and Member States are given the time to debate it we are likely to have to revisit the matter in the very near future . 
The latest proposals provide hope that the Praesidium is now in listening mode , but there is clearly still much listening to do . 
Even with the restrictions on his role in foreign policy , European Liberal Democrats remain unconvinced of the case for a full-time chairman of the European Council . 
We are suspicious that the larger Member States seek to unpick the seams of the Community fabric . 
A double-hatted approach for Europe 's new Foreign Minister commands widespread support , so why not take the same approach and integrate the roles of European Commission and European Council Presidents ? 
Must we risk years of conflict , of turf wars , of duplication of effort before we recognise the sense of this approach ? 
At the very least we must leave open the door to an integrated presidency in a few years time . 
President Prodi spoke - and I have sympathy with much that he said - of the national veto . 
In the name of preserving national sovereignty , the veto all too often promotes international anarchy . 
Unless we are capable of thinking in new ways about the concept of sovereignty , we will continue to fail our citizens on the major challenges we face . 
While I welcome the proposed extension of Parliament 's powers of democratic control over the budget and European legislation , I am concerned that an imbalance remains between the powers of Parliament and Council in other areas , such as concluding agreements with third countries on crucial security matters . 
Mr President-in-Office , another item on your agenda in Thessaloniki will be the debate on High Representative Solana 's recommendations for an overall strategy in foreign and security policy . 
It is vital for the European Union to develop a doctrine which enshrines the central role of international law and of institutions such as the UN , the WTO and NATO . 
Europe also urgently needs a framework for deciding under which conditions we should commit troops to military action , including conflict prevention , peace enforcement and humanitarian crises . 
Congo is a welcome step forward but our current embarrassment over Bosnia-Herzegovina is a setback . 
And to prevent the European Union fracturing again as it did over Iraq , we need to start debating and planning now our approach to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction . 
I hope that the summit will discuss Europe 's approach to North Korea and Iran and not leave it until a crisis erupts . 
In the area of Justice and Home Affairs , I commend the President-in-Office for the progress made thus far under Greece 's stewardship . 
I hope that you will continue to seek to balance repressive measures against illegal immigration with a generous approach to refugees and an emphasis on human rights and fundamental freedoms . 
I would also appeal to the President-in-Office to make every effort to conclude three important proposals concerning third-country nationals who are long-term residents , minimum standards for qualifying for refugee status and minimum standards for the granting of such status . 
Mr President-in-Office , you touched on the subject of a Members ' Statute . 
I fear that the proposal we adopted yesterday will not make your work any easier , but I hope you will be guided in this , as in other matters on your agenda , by the advice of your philosopher , Socrates : remember that there is nothing stable in human affairs , therefore avoid undue elation in prosperity , or undue depression in adversity . 
Mr President , I can understand the frustration of Mr Varela and our other Spanish colleagues about this amendment , but what this amendment seeks to do , and I do not wish to reopen the debate , is to protect a key conservation zone , one of the most significant conservation zones in European waters . 
If we are to be taken seriously as a House , if our Common Fisheries Policy is to be taken seriously , then we must insist that this policy is about preserving fish stocks , allowing fish stocks to recover . 
I would suggest to you , Mr President , if you are inclined to rule that this amendment is inadmissible , that the whole report be referred back to committee . 
But I hope you do not rule that it is inadmissible and that we can go ahead with the vote . 
Here is mine : 
With regret , I am unable to support the draft Statute of Members in the form in which Parliament adopted it on 3 June . 
I would therefore have voted against today 's legislative resolution , and as shadow rapporteur I advised my Group in this sense . 
I am unable to go along with the rejection of the ` Belgium compromise ' amendment that would have allowed national income tax on an MEP 's salary , and the rejection of a strong statement on a revised and transparent expenses system . 
I also have grave reservations about the sweeping provisions suggested for Members ' immunity . 
After yesterday 's adoption of taxation at Community level , a salary at 50 % of a European Court Judge 's , an implementation date after 2004 and immunities which would involve primary legislation , we believe this has gone too far . 
The adoption of these measures will only further alienate Members of the European Parliament from the electorate at a time when we are trying to connect with the European public through the simplification and clarification of our rules . 
This Statute will not be seen as a step in that direction . 
The EPLP welcomes the reform of the expenses regime to travel at cost and will now work to have that implemented independently of the Statute . 
The measures contained in the report are important both in enhancing maritime safety and in preventing the type of environmental disaster which the Galician coast recently suffered . 
In my constituency , Scotland , we are bordered by some of the most dangerous waters of Europe and have sadly experienced the environmental effects of oil tankers shedding their cargoes at sea . 
Sympathy for those whose livelihood suffered as a result of the Prestige disaster was expressed by residents of the Shetland islands of Scotland who suffered a similar fate in 1993 , when the Braer sank off the Shetland coast . 
In the aftermath of last year 's disaster , we questioned why lessons appeared not to have been learned from Scotland 's experiences ten years ago . 
Mr President , I would like to speak on both the Hudghton report and the Stevenson report . 
On the Hudghton report the position taken by the EPLP relates to our political support for regional advisory councils , subsidiarity and scope for some decentralised management measures . 
On the Stevenson report - formerly the Ó Neachtain report - on western waters concerning the Irish Box , the position has been taken on conservation grounds relating to a vulnerable spawning area and in line with longstanding regional support for the Irish Box . 
Amendment No 20 , which effectively gives a 10-year derogation to the Irish Box , is a vital conservation measure and we support it . 
That is why I am delighted that Amendment No 20 was adopted with such a majority today . 
All other amendments fall , as Amendment No 20 was adopted , allowing us to support the report as amended . 
Madam President , I wish to begin by thanking the Commission for responding to this resolution on Nigeria and also Mr van den Berg both for his reports and for the enormous amount of work he did as chief observer while he was in Nigeria . 
His report is factual , fair and frank , and I find it disappointing that the Council report - perhaps for obvious reasons - was not as strong in its comments . 
In future I hope that the institutions will try and speak with one voice . 
As the Commissioner has just said , we have to be outspoken and condemn wrongdoings or there is no point in observing . 
The Nigerian elections were a classic example of how important election observation by the EU institutions is and how important it is to have observers out in the polling stations . 
The sight of observers not only ensures that misdemeanours are spotted , it also encourages voters that the outside world is taking an interest in making sure that rules are observed and democracy and freedom of choice are being given a chance . 
I have always believed that it is difficult to transpose a European-style election procedure onto some developing countries , as they do not have the capacity to properly prepare the paperwork . 
It is in this area that we in Europe could help by increasing our support to strengthen procedures . 
Action should be taken by the appropriate bodies to rectify such anomalies , and we here should continue to monitor what happens . 
President Obasanjo has the potential to be one of the great leaders in the new Africa and should not be tarnished by the behaviour of some of his supporters . 
Nigeria is one of the largest and , potentially , richest countries in sub-Saharan Africa . 
With good governance , it can set an example not only for the region but also for the whole continent . 
However , to do that it must set aside the ethnic differences of the north and south , outlaw the extremes of Sharia law and work together towards economic prosperity . 
There were blatant and obvious misdemeanours , both before and during the elections , but we must look ahead to the future , correcting the mistakes of the past - by legislation where necessary - and we must encourage it to do so . 
The chief observer 's report should point it in the right direction . 
I sincerely hope Nigeria will take note and take action . 
Mr President , we have waited a long time for this debate , and I would like to thank the rapporteur , Mrs Jöns , for all her work on this issue . 
It often takes one person to drive an issue forward and to obtain a result and if it were not for Mrs Jöns and all her hard work , we would probably not be sitting here today debating this issue . 
Breast cancer is one of the greatest health problems facing Scotland and the EU as a whole . 
It is the most common form of cancer amongst women in Scotland and the second leading cause of death in all women . 
The disease affects one in nine women and claims 13 000 lives in the UK every year . 
Despite advances in diagnosis and treatment , breast cancer is the leading cause of death in women aged 35 to 55 . 
Firstly , as the rapporteur recognises , screening has to be a priority . 
Although treatment in Scotland and the UK is better than in most Member States , with specialist nurses and the promotion of breast care centres , it is still the case that , unlike with smear testing , women only start being screened automatically at the age of 50 . 
The Scottish breast-screening programme currently invites eligible women aged 50-64 every three years . 
This is a good start , but we know there is always more that can be done . 
Recent studies show that , with improved screening of young and middle-aged women , mortality rates could be reduced by about one quarter . 
Part of the reason is better diagnosis and also people understanding about genetics and family history , but our environment , lifestyle , habits and general quality of life may be related . 
Thirdly , we need to make sure that organisations like Europa Donna which have done so much work across Europe on the issue of breast cancer awareness are given the support they deserve . 
Women in the EU diagnosed with breast cancer need to understand the treatment options available to them . 
It is important that patients have access to useful information about breast cancer and support systems . 
Mr President , I wish to thank the general rapporteur and the lead committee for their work on this important proposal . 
It is essential for the sake of consumers and , indeed , producers and suppliers that we have a sensible regime for the protection of public health . 
In relation to fisheries and aquaculture products , there are some very particular challenges . 
It may not always be appropriate simply to transpose controls which are designed for farmed animals to fishing and aquaculture products . 
For example , some of the issues and challenges relating to fish diseases , dioxin levels and so forth are very specific and require regularly updated and verifiable scientific advice on which to base controls and toxin levels . 
Bivalve molluscs by their nature pose particular challenges and perhaps the testing regime for scallops , for example , ought not to be identical to that for mussels or other species . 
We have to look to species-specific controls in relation to bivalve molluscs . 
The current proposal in relation to toxin levels was based on studies carried out in Canada and Japan on mussels , and the effects on the scallop industry of the type of controls which have been envisaged could be very significant . 
We need to look very carefully at ensuring - for the sake of consumers but also those who depend on these industries for their livelihood - that risk-based measures are imposed which are reasonable in relation to the problems involved . 
Mr President , this report has been somewhat controversial and the many amendments show that it remains so today . 
Food safety is a key priority for consumers and this regulation will lay down specific rules for the organisation of official controls on products of animal origin intended for human consumption . 
There is still much to be done to protect consumer safety throughout the European Union and in the enlargement countries . 
If we want proper European Union rules for the organisation of controls on products of animal origin intended for human consumption , we need a directive which will promote consumer confidence and prevent scandals from happening . 
There is growing concern , of which the rapporteur is very much aware , that the independence of meat inspectors in the UK could be put on the line with this report . 
As their representatives have said , at the moment their independence gives them powers which they would not have if they were employed by the firm where they are working . 
For example , one meat inspector told me that she would stop a production line if a chicken head had not been cut off properly - something which should be welcomed given the importance of this House places on animal welfare . 
Similarly , if there is a problem with the quality of meat , the inspector has the power to stop that piece of meat moving from the production line to the supermarket . 
If the inspectors lost their independence and were employed by the firms in which they worked , food safety would go out of the window to increase profit . 
This report should be welcomed ; but we must recognise the difference between Member States in terms of controls and the importance in the UK of retaining the independence of the meat inspectorate . 
Mr President , I represent as you say , a composite group in this , the Group of the Greens and the European Free Alliance , and I would like to thank personally Jo Leinen very much for his colleaguely courtesy and goodwill in carrying out this work . 
Undoubtedly , unlike Mr Ribeiro e Castro , I think that what has been produced is a genuine attempt at a compromise and one which I believe a majority of my Group will be happy to accept , although other colleagues who will speak in the debate will draw attention to particular points of concern . 
From the point of view of the European Free Alliance which I particularly represent here , there are , however , genuine concerns about the way in which the criteria are chosen : the way in which one specifies what counts . 
When I look at the new flags beautifully adorning the podium there , I see that there are flags of many countries which are present or future Member States and which are actually , in terms of either territory or population or both , considerably smaller than the countries I have mentioned . 
So the kind of movement in thought - and it is a European movement in thought - which the European Free Alliance represents is actively discriminated against by a criterion specified simply in terms of a proportion of the total number of Member States . 
That really is something that needs to be reflected upon . 
A Parliament of this kind and a Union of this kind must have a very particular regard for the interests of minorities and for fairness to minorities and the rights of smaller groups . 
I know that the compromise has aimed to move in our direction and I appreciate that very much , but the fact of the matter is that there is still a serious difficulty from the point of view of this genuine European tide of opinion . 
The European Free Alliance has been recognised for a long time as one of the original Europe-wide political families , and yet we will stand on the margins of being excluded and de-recognised under these proposals . 
I am afraid we can not support them in this form . 
Mr President , I apologise for being a bit croaky . 
I have made so many speeches over the last week I am losing my voice , although some people would regard that as a blessing . 
First of all I congratulate Giorgio Lisi for his excellent report . 
Embracing the Mediterranean within the controls and regulations of the common fisheries policy is a very ambitious plan and one which I hope will secure the core objectives of conservation and sustainability . 
However , to do so we first must learn the lesson from past failures of the common fisheries policy . 
We do not need to search far for these failures : for the past year we have been dealing with crisis after crisis . 
The Commission itself , in the opening lines of its CFP reform document , acknowledges that the policy has been deeply flawed . 
Where the main objective of the CFP has been to sustain employment in the sector and to sustain fish stocks we have failed miserably on both counts . 
We are now dealing with estimated job losses in excess of 40 000 around the North Sea alone , with hundreds of fishermen leaving the industry and scrapping their vessels , and fish stocks across the major whitefish species showing signs of imminent collapse . 
The reasons for these problems are of course manifold : overfishing has indeed played its part , but so have environmental pollution , global warming , North Atlantic drift , and many other factors . 
However , the strict regime of TACs and quotas has itself exacerbated the problem of discards , with over 25 % of healthy fish being thrown dead back into the sea every year . 
A Commission official told our committee last week that an estimated 150 000 tonnes of fresh healthy haddock were dumped dead back into the North Sea last year . 
This is an utter tragedy and completely unsustainable . 
Similarly , the problems of illegal fishing - black fish landings - have made the situation even worse . 
We must not allow these problems to be imported into the Mediterranean under the CFP . 
It would be untenable to impose a strict regime of regulations and controls on our own fleet while allowing vessels from other nations to plunder the seas unhindered . 
Many of these craft are old and are becoming increasingly unsafe , so we need to look at the modernisation of these vessels on health and safety grounds alone . 
I also welcome the recommendations from Mr Lisi that we should closely monitor leisure fishing . 
This is an increasingly important area and it provides many jobs in the tourist sector , the value of which we can not underestimate . 
It would be ludicrous , however , to ignore the impact such activities have on the fisheries sector and on fish stocks . 
Mr President , it is a very important matter that we discuss tonight , as Mr Bolkestein said . 
He urged us , in his closing words , to make sure that we modernise and simplify European Community law and endow it with appropriate flexibility . 
With this I believe we can all agree . 
The issue is : which exact text will best achieve that ? 
To establish the general orientation of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance , we thought that the Commission 's original proposal was unduly timid and grudging on points such as the environmental and social points . 
We , and others in Parliament , urged a broader and more generous view - the one that was in due course confirmed by the Court of Justice in the Helsinki tramways case . 
That was a real advance . 
It was not just our view , but Parliament 's view at first reading . 
Then we have the common position . 
To us , the common position seems to be in some measure a retreat from the high-water mark represented by Parliament 's first reading position . 
We would like to see some aspects of that retreat again reversed . 
I accept Mr Bolkestein 's point that the text , as it came to us from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market , is internally inconsistent . 
I would put that down to the fact that in committee we had an unstable and varying majority , which meant that there was no clear golden thread running through the text that came from the committee . 
But there is a way of restoring it to consistency , coherence and environmental and social sensibility , which is to adopt the string of amendments , which will pull it back towards Parliament 's first reading position and again exhort the Council and the Commission to take a bold step that will continue to serve these valuable goals of modernisation , simplification and flexibility . 
My own group will put forward two amendments in particular relating to Article 53 where , for example , we will object to the idea that it must be a tender most economically advantageous for the contracting authorities . 
Do not leave out characteristics , including those relating to production methods or the tender as equal-treatment policy . 
If these are unacceptably vague then the whole of Community law is unacceptably vague because we are exhorted in the horizontal clauses of the Treaties to attend to these very values ! 
Let us get rid of the inconsistencies , but let us get rid of them in the right direction . 
Mr President , Mr President-in-Office , looking at the balance sheet of the Greek Presidency , the items on the plus side of the ledger well outnumber those on the negative side . 
Given Europe 's difficulties in the last six months with the Iraq war and economic stagnation , that is a remarkable tribute to your government . 
Your first priority , rightly , was to meet the timetable for enlargement of the European Union . 
The signing of the Accession Treaties beneath the Acropolis and seven successful referenda have amply met this goal . 
Our joy at Europe 's reunification is nonetheless tinged with sadness that Greece was unable to exploit its privileged relationships to bring in a united Cyprus . 
Please do not cease your efforts . 
We also regret the tensions which surfaced between ` new ' and ` old ' Europe over Iraq , despite your best efforts and two common positions to your credit . 
Bringing the Convention 's draft Constitutional Treaty safely into port also deserves to be chalked up as a notable success of your presidency . 
The Liberal Democrats in this House agree with you . 
The draft text agreed by the Convention provides a good basis for the Constitution , and we will hold Member State governments to the commitments they have made . 
We welcome the extra time given to the Convention to complete its work on Part III , though for the Council to describe the remaining discussions on majority voting and codecision as ` purely technical work ' is a masterpiece of understatement worthy of the British Government 's description of the whole process as just a ` tidying-up exercise ' . 
The vanity of victory teaches us far less than the humiliation of defeat and Europe 's failure over Iraq seems to have had some beneficial consequences , notably in driving forward European cooperation in security and defence policy . 
The establishment of the rapid reaction force , the launching of operations in Bosnia , FYROM and the Congo are certainly pluses . 
However , the weaknesses in the quality and coordination of European defence spending are clearly negatives , which we hope will be remedied by the new Armaments Agency . 
Our failure over Iraq also helped you adopt two remarkable documents at Thessaloniki : Mr Solana 's EU security strategy and the Council 's declaration on weapons of mass destruction . 
The security strategy provides a fitting European response to the US doctrine , resting as it does on the European principles of multilateralism and prevention rather than pre-emption . 
The statement on WMD makes clear to our American friends that we are taking the threat of these weapons seriously , and offers a framework for Europe 's response to Iran and North Korea . 
You made Justice and Home Affairs the centrepiece of your presidency programme . 
Much has been achieved , though justice and freedom still play second fiddle to security , to the European Union 's discredit . 
Commitments to further progress on legal migration and the integration of third country nationals are a fitting riposte to those who sought to repeat in Thessaloniki the kind of headlines which shamed Seville . 
However , my group regrets that you did not provide for proper parliamentary scrutiny , at European or national level , of the recent EU-US extradition agreement . 
On economic reform the Hellenic Presidency has made good progress , notably reforming the Stability Pact to target underlying deficits , concluding the energy liberalisation package and adopting the much-needed pensions directive . 
All in all , this has been a profitable six months for the European Union , despite the huge costs of war and the difficult economic position . 
Let us hope that , as you hand the baton to your successors , they too will run hard to keep up the Olympian lead that you have established . 
Mr President , as a member of the Convention I noticed that very early on it became a commonplace - at least certain governments tried to make it so - that the six-monthly rotation of the presidency of the Council leads to inefficiency , a loss of momentum , a loss of direction and , sotto voce , that if too many small countries have the presidency it will not work . 
I congratulate the Greek Presidency most sincerely for having shown that this is completely false . 
It has been the case during the last five years that the small-country presidencies have proved to be models of how this system can work . 
We should take pride and pleasure in that and congratulate the Greek Presidency on it . 
Last Friday , at a meeting in London , a document produced by the London Office of the European Parliament remarked that the Convention was proposing that the Council should have a permanent , powerful presidency . 
Anybody who believes that ought to have a look at the draft text . 
The presidency of the Council will have no constitutional powers . 
The Council is denied any power of legislating . 
The Council may - and ought to - have influence , but the idea that the presidency will be ` powerful ' is a great mistake . 
Since it will be a presidency chairing a meeting of prime ministers and heads of states , it will not be so much a case of primus inter pares as of less than par inter primos , unlike the position of the President of the Commission in future , for which again I am glad . 
Although we have rightly heard a certain sense of alarm about the dual presidency , it may not be as bad as it sounds , like the music of Wagner . 
At the Convention I had the honour of representing - as alternate member - the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance , and in particular the European Free Alliance subset representing the stateless nations of Europe - the small countries . 
I rejoice , as I said the other day , to see the flags of the new countries that come in . 
But not all the little countries of Europe are as yet - or intended to be - Member States of Europe . 
It is therefore vitally important to ask ourselves , as we contemplate a new constitution for Europe , about the future position of Catalonia ( comparable in size to Hungary ) , of Scotland ( comparable in size to the Slovak Republic ) , of Galicia or Wales ( comparable in size to Latvia ) . 
What will be the way in which this Union works ? 
Mr de Gaulle was happy to pour contempt on the idea of subsidiarity . 
If we do not recognise that this is going to have to be a Europe of democracy at many levels , which takes subsidiarity seriously and takes it in a transitive sense right through the Member States , to all the countries of Europe , it will not work . 
I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he agrees with the President of the United States of America that perhaps Europe 's position on trade in genetically modified crops is having an effect on our trade with the southern African countries in agricultural products , thereby affecting their ability to feed themselves ? 
Mr Bolkestein and Mr Byrne will each speak for 20 minutes and we have to finish before 7 o'clock , so I would ask you to continue , as the rules require , with Mr Bolkestein 's section . 
I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the extreme impracticality of the manual tagging of individual sheep , and its maintenance for a further two years . 
Has he ever seen an auction market ? 
I am sure that in his home country of Ireland the situation is the same as in Scotland , where you have thousands of sheep going through in one day and each individual sheep has to be inspected and tagged as it goes through . 
That will add days to sales for only for two years ' worth of savings . 
Could he not and has he not considered doing this on a flock basis , as opposed to an individual sheep basis , for this two-year period of time ? 
While I have the good fortune to use a computer and to read both languages , some colleagues do not . 
I hope this is not a presage . 
Your primary task will be to convene the IGC to examine the draft Constitution . 
My group shares your ambition to finish this work as soon as possible , and in good time before next year 's elections . 
We trust that you will provide adequate representation of the European and national parliaments whose involvement in the Convention helped make it such a success . 
But the future of Europe is up to the Member States . 
If they continue to fight over it , it will be not a Treaty of Rome - not even a Treaty of Dublin - but perhaps a Treaty of Utrecht , representing peace through exhaustion . 
Liberal Democrats agree with your priorities on the European economy . 
So initiatives to revive growth are welcome . 
Yet the completion of the trans-European transport networks must be viewed as a means to an economic end - the smoother functioning of the internal market - and not as an end in itself . 
As a British Liberal , I am delighted by the fidelity of your programme to John Maynard Keynes , and my delight is matched only by my surprise . 
However , I hope you agree that the spending you propose on TENs and on defence must be compatible with Member States ' commitments under the Stability Pact , which is already under great strain . 
For Liberals the continuing value of Keynes lies in his insistence on solidarity . 
Your programme speaks much of consumers , but we are citizens first and foremost . 
Market ideology tricks people into equating buying power with voting power , and it robs us of the civic freedom by which we control the social consequences of our private choices . 
Where regulation is needed is where the gains from remedying market failure for citizens or the environment outweigh the costs of government intervention . 
In Italian political debate this is the difference between liberalismo , in which we believe , and liberismo , which we very much reject . 
My group supports the closer cooperation you propose with countries around the new borders of the EU , but we should not offer false hope of membership to our neighbours . 
Closer relations with the Union must be linked to democracy , respect for human rights and development of a market economy . 
We particularly welcome your emphasis on the Euro-Med partnership , which has long been a Liberal priority , and your plans for Albania , where Italy can surely show a lead . 
Your programme 's proposals on transatlantic relations , which are on the mend after the breakdown caused by the crisis over Iraq , and your aim to rebuild ties with America are welcome . 
On the Middle East too , the Union must project its voice in the Quartet strongly and clearly . 
Assistance in rebuilding the Palestinian economy must be conditional on action against terrorism , as improved cooperation with Israel must be conditional on progress in implementing the road map , notably on dismantling settlements . 
On agriculture and on immigration , Liberal Democrats find much less in common with your priorities . 
These two policy areas are linked . 
Unless we open our markets to farm produce from developing countries , their people will vote with their feet . 
The policies you propose on justice and home affairs seek mainly to prevent immigration . 
They will not work because you can not beat the law of supply and demand which operates in labour markets like elsewhere . 
When you tell us you are concerned about Europe 's reputation ` Cercheremo di fare bella figura per l'Europa ' , lei ha detto , please bear in mind that white Caucasians are in a minority on our planet . 
We hope that you will be guided in justice and home affairs by the balanced approach of the Greek Presidency , rather than by the tenor of Seville . 
Mr President-in-Office , your country assumes the presidency following a highly successful Hellenic Presidency , marked by the search for compromise and agreement . 
Liberal Democrats in this House hope that in your tenure in the Chair you will , in your words and actions , respect the dignity of the office and honour Italy 's traditional European vocation . 
Mr President , at this late stage of the evening there is not much to be said , especially since we all agree on the virtues of the report and its underlying point . 
I just want to quickly address three principles . 
First of all , it is obvious that criminal law and criminal sanctions touch the liberty of citizens more closely than any other branch of the law and therefore , being absolutely certain that there is a valid constitutional basis for the use of criminal law is vital to liberty as a fundamental matter of the rule of law . 
One of the things that the report and its explanatory statement do is to show exactly to what extent there is a basis . 
Secondly , in a democratic Community , it is essential that the citizens ' representatives get to vote on the question of whether the criminal law should be extended . 
Therefore it is excellent to discover , as Mr Koukiadis shows , that it is a matter for the Community Pillar . 
I should to like to underline the point in paragraph 7 about subsidiarity and proportionality . 
Those are three important principles in an excellent report . 
I welcome Mr Bolkestein back from his brief sojourn in Scotland , where he was very welcome . 
Mr President , following on from what Mr Fatuzzo said , it is worth remarking that the concept of ` region ' is radically ambiguous . 
For example , when it comes to constitutional affairs the ancient nation of Scotland currently counts as a region of Europe . 
However , when it comes to the funds which we are discussing , Scotland itself has several extremely diverse regions . 
For example , the Highlands and Islands include some of the most isolated islands in Europe with extreme problems of transport because of weather and tidal conditions and the costs involved . 
I was glad to see that the European Socialists , including the UK Labour Party , today apparently deserted Mr Brown 's proposals about renationalisation . 
We came to good conclusions about the need to sustain structural funding at European level and to take seriously the problems of territorial cohesion and permanent geographical disadvantage . 
Mr President , I would like to say that my first explanation of vote was a compendious explanation of my two votes . 
I am delighted that you carried these reports on regional funds and I need say no more . 
That would enable the Commissioner and everyone from the Committee on Fisheries to be present for all of these reports . 
No one anticipated having to come back late tonight and it would perhaps mean there would be very few people here from the committee for these reports if we delay them . 
I am glad that Commissioner Fischler has pointed out that the protocol signed yesterday goes some way towards adjusting this matter that the auditors have criticised in the past . 
It is worth remembering , as Mr Casaca said , that these were the terms of an agreement drawn up at the time Greenland left the European Community . 
A substantial part of this compensation package is to support the Greenland economy and the desperately poor Inuit population of Greenland . 
I know this is a fact that Mrs Langenhagen is an expert on and has asked Parliament to deal with sympathetically in the past . 
However , I support the rapporteur when she insists that those non-fisheries-related aspects of relations between the EU and Greenland have to be financed under heading 4 of the financial perspective or through the European Development Fund . 
The fisheries budget must only be used for fisheries purposes . 
On the other hand , I wish to sound a note of caution on that aspect of the report which calls for a share-out of under-utilised fishing rights . 
Commissioner Fischler drew attention to this in his statement , and the protocol signed yesterday appears now to be able to allocate these under-used fishing rights to other Member States . 
I would urge the Commissioner in this respect to remember the beleaguered whitefish fleet around the North Sea , particularly that of the UK , which is now tied up for half of every month with the quotas slashed by 50 % . 
If there is to be a handout of under-utilised rights or joint-venture partnerships , please ensure that the whitefish fleet in the North Sea comes at the top of the queue . 
Such a demand is unacceptable - and Parliament should not sanction the behaviour of those fleets who know no boundaries , and accept no limits . 
Those countries which have best managed their resources are those which have respected historical rights from the past - and give their fishermen hope for the future . 
We must not export our problems to waters outwith the Union - and we must limit the ambitions of destructive armadas . 
Mr President , Liberal Democrats in this House join the tributes which have been paid to Sergio Vieira de Mello and all the other victims of the callous attacks on the United Nations in Baghdad . 
The unstable and violent situation in Iraq shows that while a coalition of the willing may be able to win a military conflict , winning the peace without the legitimacy of the United Nations is a much more difficult matter . 
My Group , therefore , welcomes the tentative moves towards a UN resolution which would place the coalition forces in Iraq within a multilateral framework . 
Liberals have always favoured a multilateral resolution to the problems posed by Iraq , and if the coalition is belatedly coming round to that view , then it is better late than never . 
The so-called ` coalition of the willing ' was a curiously outdated 19th century balance of power concept , which always carried with it the danger of leaving at least one nation feeling aggrieved . 
What we seek is a multilateral , rules-based framework for crisis management within which there is space for the hurts of nations to heal . 
There is no reason why the United States should not retain command of a multinational UN force in Iraq , but it must be based on a UN resolution and give the UN and contributing nations the central role in decision-making . 
Failure thus far to find weapons of mass destruction is leading to searching questions at hearings in London , Washington and Canberra and raising doubts about the legitimacy of the enterprise . 
The way to give the international presence in Iraq a sense of legitimacy and regain the trust of the Iraqi people is to mount a UN-backed drive to restore security , to improve the lives of ordinary Iraqis and to move towards government by popular mandate . 
The swearing-in of Iraq 's first post-Saddam cabinet today is a tremendous step forward in that respect . 
We hope that the timetable for elections by the end of next year can be maintained . 
My Group welcomes the Commission 's initiative in convening a preparatory meeting today in Brussels for the important conference of international donors next month in Madrid . 
If the European Union has allocated EUR one billion for water aid - and I believe Commissioner Nielson has been instrumental in this - I must congratulate the EU and the Commissioner . 
Sadly , it is not enough . 
We need to do more and I ask the Commissioner to please make sure that this Parliament has a say in formulating water aid policy so that it is not lost in the clouds like the EDF . 
Parliament needs to be involved . 
I want this to happen . 
I hope you will assure us of this because I do not want my colleague here to persuade the PPE-DE Group to vote against the Lannoye report tomorrow . 
I understand what you are doing and I have confidence in it . 
I would like to say a quick word about trade . 
The poor countries need to process their products , not simply to export the raw products so that the value added is not received by them . 
That is the key to trade . 
I know Commissioner Nielson understands this and I know he is working for it . 
I hope he will do more . 
Mr President , the role of NSAs - non-state actors - in helping development has been acknowledged and I agree with Commissioner Nielson in what he said . 
If you look at the United Nations , there are 72 000 registered NGOs drawing EUR 7 billion every year . 
Certainly , the NGOs have got their act together . 
They know what to do , where to go and source the founds . 
On the other hand , private companies - and they are non-state actors too - do not enjoy the same status , privilege or funding . 
I am very much in favour of tilting the balance to established private corporations with a good track record in development and in developing countries , so that they may also receive aid that would be very well utilised . 
We also have two categories that the EU has never considered . 
I know they are slightly off-track and perhaps Parliament has discussed this . 
Very selective use of mission work in developing countries can bring substantial benefit to the very poorest in these countries for very low sums of money . 
I have personal experience of both Rotary Clubs and missionaries working in East Africa for very little money . 
They provide substantial support for local communities . 
But today I am going to focus on accountability . 
It is known that a large percentage of money received by non-state actors , particularly NGOs , is spent on administration , including high salaries , first - or club-class fares , and bills for expensive hotels . 
There are so many seminars which now , with information technology , are totally unnecessary . 
Transparency International is supposed to monitor the role of such bodies , but it has not done the job it is supposed to have done . 
I am pointing out these things for this Parliament and for Commissioner Nielson to put at the back of their minds because much has already been said and will be said . 
But I want to highlight one thing and I hope Commissioner Nielson will take note of this . 
Whenever the EU gives any aid to any poor country , please let us inform the population what we are doing : how much money we are giving for each sector and to which actors or players or stakeholders this money is being given . 
Because the poor will be the best invigilators , the best inspectors , the best reporters to our EU delegations if they find that this EU money is being misused . 
If money has been given to the government through budgets and not spent in an appropriate manner the people will know and will report . 
If money is given to NGOs and it is not utilised people will know . 
But if they do not know what the EU gives , for what sectors , there is no inspection , there is no vigilance and there is no feedback . 
I want to say one last thing . 
There is aid fatigue and it is important that whatever the EU gives , which is very generous , it is spent well . 
I wish Commissioner Nielson much luck in what he is doing . 
He has my full support . 
Mr President , I was very happy that Parliament gave such resounding support to the Ebner report . 
My own ancestral languages in Scotland - Gaelic and Lowland Scots - have suffered severe discrimination and neglect over a couple of centuries . 
Indeed , as we know , many of the Gaelic speakers were driven out during the horrible period of the Highland Clearances . 
It is a great tragedy that the languages of Duncan Ban MacIntyre and Robert Burns have become more or less foreign languages to the children of Argyllshire and Ayrshire respectively , and other parts of Scotland . 
These are examples from one country of a universal European problem . 
I am very pleased with the result of that vote and to have taken part in it . 
The report is correct to be critical of the UK 's record on this and my knowledge of the Dungavel detention centre in my constituency of Scotland illustrates the UK Government 's failures . 
The UK Government is failing to protect the rights of asylum-seekers ' children by holding them for prolonged periods in the Dungavel centre and the devolved Scottish Government , which is responsible for the provision of education in Scotland , has failed to ensure that they are given access to mainstream education while resident in our country . 
The Scottish people have been appalled to learn about the long-term detention and lack of educational facilities for families like Yurdigal Ay and her children who were deported to Germany earlier this summer having spent a year at Dungavel . 
The UK Government 's record on asylum-seekers and their children at Dungavel is a disgrace and I trust that the Sylla report will be heeded by UK ministers and that steps are taken to ensure that the fundamental rights of refugees at Dungavel and throughout the UK are not infringed . 
This does not automatically mean that every criticism should be accepted as valid . 
Mr President , I am surprised that for once my political group is the first to be called in the debate . 
I recently had a long and interesting conversation in Scotland with the Consul General for India and we were reflecting upon the problems in trying to constitute a polity which is continental in scale and multilingual in character , with citizens of many faiths and of none , with memories of historical antagonism between religious communities and which tries to sustain a working democratic constitution and to live at peace with its neighbours . 
We have a lot to learn from India and we should approach today 's debate with a certain sense of humility in that regard . 
However , evidently , as the horrifying events in Mumbai show us , all is not well in India . 
The issue of the capability to sustain a secular state with religious tolerance is now before us , as is the question of whether the tension with Pakistan will be cooled and whether intercommunal relations in India will become peaceful . 
That sets the background to this admirable resolution which is before us today . 
Some of it in a sense merely states the obvious : of course we condemn the bomb attacks in Mumbai ; of course we deplore the targeting of civilians ; of course we feel great sympathy with the victims . 
We support the Indian Government in its fight against terrorism , but there is more to be said than that and some of it is said in my group 's amendment to the resolution where we call for further steps to be taken to enforce Indian constitutional law properly and to prevent communal violence inside India . 
We are particularly aware , for example , of recent Amnesty International reports on problems in Gujarat and the responses to the 2002 massacre there . 
The Indian National Human Rights Commission has itself called for improved vigilance by the Indian authorities and for effective protection of constitutional rights . 
At the same time we welcome the Pakistani Government 's assurance that it also deplores and has no time for the terrorist act in Mumbai . 
Times are critical , but we must also be critically sympathetic to the Indian state . 
Things are going wrong which will call for resolve in India to make them better . 
We should carry this resolution and the amendments to it tabled in the name of my group and of the ELDR Group . 
Mr President , corrupt and ruthless dictators continue to exploit and impoverish many countries in Africa . 
Decades of international aid , especially EU aid , have been undone and destroyed . 
Consequently millions suffer from avoidable diseases or are maimed and shot . 
I am pleased , of course , that the EU is involved and I want to ensure that this Parliament is aware of the continuing problems in Africa , because it is European taxpayers who in the end become impatient if we are seen not to take appropriate action . 
I hope Commissioner Nielson will do his best and keep Parliament informed , because we need to show that Liberia can recover and can perhaps be a model for other African countries . 
We need to build it anew and ensure there is prosperity and peace . 
Madam President , much has been said tonight , and it is difficult to add anything refreshingly new . 
However , I believe that this debate on energy security has never been so important . 
We need only look at the recent power cuts on the east coast of America to see how an energy crisis impacts on ordinary people - no power , no lights in family homes , no refrigeration , millions of dollars lost by small businesses . 
This incident was merely the result of a technical or human error that was rectified very quickly , but it has been a much needed wake-up call to those of us who too often take our energy supply for granted . 
Recently the Institution of Civil Engineers said that the UK could face power cuts in 20 years ' time because of its dependency on foreign energy sources . 
It has also estimated that in the UK alone - even given centres of excellence around the North Sea such as the European energy capital of Aberdeen - 80 % of the gas needed to fuel British power stations will come from distant and politically unstable countries . 
Although Member States certainly have responsibilities for securing their own energy supplies , the need for cooperation early in a crisis situation will be vital . 
However , judging by the debate this evening , opinion is certainly divided . 
Safeguarding supply is paramount , but how do we reassure the public that we have security of supply ? 
New threats from terrorism and sabotage - as we have seen in Iraq - and our increasing dependence on energy from outside the EU pose huge challenges . 
As Mr Mitchell , from the UK 's Royal Institute of International Affairs has stated , the key to energy security lies in diversity of supply . 
Mr President , many of the amendments - and certainly all those to which my group has given its name - are clearly and directly aimed at preventing any leakage from this directive into the patenting of computer software itself . 
That is very important to us . 
It is quite clear that a body of intellectual property law which protects computer software by copyright , and leaves patents for other purposes , works well from the point of view of the software industry , and of the creative minds which develop computer software . 
Neither Mrs McCarthy nor Mr Bolkestein disagrees with me on this point . 
Nobody wants a leakage resulting in the patenting of pure software . 
There is some risk that genuine inventions which involve a software element would not be adequately protected without a new directive . 
But then the burden of proof lies with the Commission to show us which of Parliament 's proposed amendments would over-protect us against the risk that we see and under-protect against the danger which the Commissioner is anxious to avoid , namely the danger of ` real ' inventions not being adequately patentable within the European Union . 
Let us be absolutely sure that what we send back from this debate and from tomorrow 's vote - and Mrs McCarthy has worked very hard on this report - really does provide a completely watertight seal against such leakage and protects what Mr Bolkestein wants to protect without creating the danger which so many of us have been taught to apprehend by our constituents . 
I voted in favour of confirming Mr Trichet as President of the European Central Bank because it is in my country 's and my constituents ' interest that the ECB be well managed and that the euro succeed as a currency . 
The euro zone is by far the most important destination for Scottish exports and source of our imports and tourists . 
I am adequately persuaded by Mr Trichet 's reputation , and by the way he responded to the questions in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , that he will maintain the stability of the euro . 
He will also maintain the requisite pressure on the Member States to pursue prudent financial policies and to reform their social structures in order to foster economic growth and development . 
This is what matters to Scotland . 
The common fisheries policy has been an abject failure : the core objectives of the CFP were to save jobs and conserve fish stocks , but thousands of jobs have been destroyed and fish stocks have collapsed . 
In the name of conservation , our fishermen have been forced to dump two million tonnes of prime dead fish back into the sea every year to comply with the quota scheme . 
In the name of conservation , our fishermen have suffered tie-ups , lay-offs , emergency closures , decommissioning and plunging incomes . 
We are struggling now to reform the CFP and to stop the final collapse of the industry in the North Sea and other key sectors . 
It is therefore of paramount importance that fisheries policy is highlighted . 
The committee was alarmed that the Convention seemed to attach fisheries policy to agriculture as a mere appendage . 
For the hundreds of thousands of people who work in the sector throughout the EU , we are not an appendage to agriculture : we are a major sector . 
Please ensure that our bid for codecision-making powers in the Committee on Fisheries is endorsed . 
Please also ensure that we can start playing a meaningful role in the future of the industry . 
Chile is , as you know , a country with which we have one of the most far-reaching association agreements for trade and we in the House should extend our normal welcome to Senator Zaldívar . 
Mr President , two weeks ago a London newspaper convened a meeting between senior journalists from Israel and Palestine , the first of its kind since before the current intifada . 
A number of participants , from both sides , expressed the belief that theirs was , in effect , a ` twenty-second century conflict ' : a war that would last a hundred years , blighting the lives of their grandchildren 's children . 
A conflict that has the capacity to exhaust the optimism of the best of us once again demands deeper reserves of patience and commitment . 
But grim as the situation is , we can not afford to despair . 
If the two sides have strayed from the roadmap 's path of peace and reconciliation , we must coax them back . 
The European Union must continue to play a crucial role in the search for peace in the Middle East . 
Greater engagement with Israel might help in this . 
Making peace also requires a strong , functioning and accountable Palestinian Authority . 
That is why the Union has spent more than EUR 300 million since 2000 to keep the Palestinian Authority in business . 
An effective and legitimate Palestinian Authority is essential to dismantle the terrorist organisations . 
The Palestinians also need a strong voice to negotiate with Israel . 
The European Union must step up its support for financial reform of the Authority to help it distance itself from terrorism . 
We have also provided more than EUR 30 million for the vital work of Palestinian municipalities in providing basic public services , because that is how you fight despair - with clean water and classrooms ; with the promise of normality and peace . 
We may regret Yasser Arafat 's intransigence , but we should remember that if the Palestinians voted tomorrow in the fair and transparent elections we would like to see , they would probably choose him again as their leader . 
The surest way to ensure that outcome would be for Israel to make a martyr out of him . 
Arafat 's place in the peace process is not for us to determine , any more than it is for Israel or for the United States . 
Suicide bombings have taken an unbearable toll in Israeli lives , and the political apologists for terror can not receive support while the killing continues . 
Both sides have to realise that there can be no military solution to this conflict . 
Israel 's extra-judicial killings must end , as they will only breed more terrorists , not force the Palestinians to negotiate . 
Israel must withdraw its forces from the Occupied Territories , and the settlement building must stop . 
Two states , living side by side in peace - that is the only viable solution . 
The roadmap , of which the European Union was the chief cartographer , recognises this , and my Group remains firmly committed to its implementation . 
Madam President , I declare an interest as a farmer receiving agricultural subsidies . 
But today I specifically want to speak in defence of the weaker developing countries , particularly those in the ACP . 
To me , Cancún should have been the culmination of months of serious work in committee , thrashing out answers to the doubts and fears of the developing world . 
To expect to sit down with 148 countries and reach any conclusion is beyond any possibility , but I believe that Cancún was a watershed . 
The days of powerful blocs such as the European Union and the USA sitting in smoke-filled rooms , carving up the spoils and throwing a few crumbs to the rest of the world , have long since gone . 
Developing countries have realised that there is strength in numbers and power in using that strength . 
But this is not just a matter of the developing and the developed world . 
There are different strata in both groupings . 
Economically , Asia , the Far East and Latin America are light-years away from the ACP countries . 
Countries ' trade potential will develop at different speeds . 
Successes for the future depend on flexibility of timing . 
Opt-outs were offered as essential ingredients at Cancún and must be part of any future plan . 
Capacity to enact what has been agreed is a key factor . 
The ACP is , at this moment , negotiating a Cotonou partnership agreement on trade to be agreed by 2008 . 
Economic partnership agreements and regional economic partnership agreements are the eventual aim of those negotiations . 
Most of those countries are not ready for reciprocal trade agreements or rules on competition ; but regional integration would give them strength in a global world and increase south/south trade . 
The ACP countries could not cope with Cotonou and Cancún at the same time . 
For them Cancún was a step too far , too soon . 
Now we must have a complete reassessment of procedures . 
I would like to concentrate on an important amendment which has been mentioned in this debate , namely Amendment No 19 on the conformity and control of transitory contamination . 
It is critical for me as a Scottish representative in the House . 
In south-west Scotland , the Irvine and Aire river valleys are particularly susceptible during times of heavy rainfall -- in flash floods during the summer months , for example -- to failing to meet the micro-biological standards for good quality during those few , rare days . 
Amendment No 19 introduces a two-part system of management action . 
Its purpose is to bring the Commission 's proposal into line with the approach adopted in World Health Organisation guidelines for recreational use . 
The guidelines acknowledge that the tighter standards proposed by the WHO would be breached under some circumstances , i.e. heavy rainfall , and include an allowance to discount samples during these periods , provided that management measures are in place to protect bathers . 
The amendment encourages authorities to take preventive action where possible to protect bathers from exposure to pollution . 
The Council of European Municipalities and Regions has also backed Amendment No 19 , and local government wants to see bathing water quality improve by introducing more flexibility into bathing water rules . 
Mr President , I should like to add my tribute for the huge amount of work that has been put into the process of the budget so far by the rapporteurs , coordinators and indeed the chairman of the committee . 
I welcome much of the output of the committee so far . 
In one of the smaller budget lines they proposed an increase for town twinning . 
I would invite the Commission to put an end to the annual skirmish on this subject and accept that this is a budget line that is relatively small but very keenly felt , appreciated and depended upon by many Community organisations . 
On agriculture and rural development , I support the idea of increasing aid to less-favoured areas where agricultural production faces very serious and particular challenges in economic terms . 
I would like to encourage , in general , moves to boost rural development to get a more appropriate targeting of available resources in rural areas from EU funding , while ensuring that the incentives are there in order to encourage the rearing of livestock and the growing of crops by the most natural methods possible . 
On fisheries , I am very disappointed that the Council seemed so unwilling to fund adequately its own CFP reform programme . 
I am particularly disappointed that Parliament 's proposal to provide an additional EUR 150 million to address some of the serious economic and social consequences of the current crisis in white-fish - dependent areas has been blocked by Member States , in particular the UK Government . 
I agree with those who have commented upon the idiotic proposal to award ourselves additional taxi allowances outwith the budgetary process . 
I do not see how that particular idea is going to help the reputation of this establishment or make a contribution to activity-based budgeting . 
In considering this legislation , would you bear in mind that a certain flexibility is certainly desirable ? 
For example , if you have a rigid nine hours or eight hours with rest periods thereafter , you may be within sight of the ultimate destination . 
In such cases , it is certainly better to allow an hour or two extra driving rather than a 12-hour rest period followed by a further one or two hours ' driving . 
I appeal to you to consider a certain flexibility in the application of any legislation related to animal transport . 
Mr President , I welcome the opportunity this evening to debate the violation of women 's rights in EU international relations . 
Historically , the very concept of international relations has really excluded women . 
As Professor Cynthia Enlow , one of the eminent authors in gender and international relations , describes , the value of women 's experiences in war , marriage , trade , prostitution , factory work or domestic chores has been ignored by world leaders and on the international level . 
Violence against women often stems from this very discrimination , though women are not seen as equal to men . 
In turn , gender-based violence is legitimised and women 's human rights are denied . 
Women should be entitled to the right to life ; the right not to be subjected to torture ; the right to equal protection in times of international or internal armed conflict ; the right to liberty and security of the person ; the right to equal protection under the law ; the right to equality in the family ; the right to the highest standard of physical and mental health and the right to just and favourable conditions of work . 
Even in European Union countries we still see that violence against women is treated unfairly . 
If I take Italy -- which at the moment holds the presidency of the European Union -- as an example , in February 1999 the Italian Supreme Court overturned on appeal , a court verdict which had found a male driving instructor guilty of raping his 18-year-old student . 
The Supreme Court noted that the victim was wearing jeans at the time of the offence and stated that jeans can not even be partly removed without the active cooperation of the person wearing them . 
The court decided that the victim had consented to sex and concluded that the rape was not proven . 
With these kinds of attitudes , the emphasis on women 's rights being integral to human rights is vital . 
As my Spanish colleague said , at the moment they are merely seen as an aside , rather than being integral to human rights . 
Gender considerations have to be taken into account through gender mainstreaming . 
The initiative to include a clause in the 2003 budget which states that the lack of action to prevent and combat severe violence against women , such as stoning , public castigation , genital mutilation , burning and rape will constitute a reason to suspend EU assistance must be taken into consideration . 
In Kenya , in one particular community , the incidence of genital mutilation was as high as 97 % . 
Wife inheritance continues , and experiences of rape and domestic abuse are rife . 
In Pakistan , the Human Rights Commission estimated that in the year 2000 a woman was raped every two hours and hundreds of women were victims of honour killings , domestic violence , burnings and murder . 
As you start to explore the nature of violence against women , and the European Union 's role in international relations , there are pressures we can place to help to prevent these atrocities from happening . 
We have an opportunity to make international relations wake up to their responsibility and recognise women . 
We have responsibilities in the European Union to uphold women 's rights across the globe . 
Last week , the International Council for Exploration of the Seas ( ICES ) warned us that young North Sea cod measured in early 2003 were at their lowest level in 20 years . 
The Commission 's proposal sets out a package of measures which , if followed , is believed to allow the safe recovery of this valuable stock within five to ten years . 
The Commission is not alone in this objective . 
Yesterday 's cod recovery proposal from the Scottish Fishermen 's Federation also stated that : ` restoring cod to its historic level of abundance remains an important objective for fishermen , since a revitalised cod fishery would transform the economics of the whole demersal fishery ' . 
The Commission proposal attempts to achieve an absolute minimum size of stock , sets guidelines for setting total allowable catches ( TACs ) , introduces fishing limitation through Kilowatt days and deals with the monitoring , inspection and control side of fisheries management 
We need a flexible approach based on scientific assessment allowing fishing to continue for other species . 
Where it can be proved that fishing for other species in a particular area does not adversely affect cod recovery , fisheries should continue to be allowed and the concept of spatial management needs to be fully investigated . 
On research , we need to look seriously at the interaction of cod and other commercial fish species such as haddock and whiting . 
This evidence should involve fishermen as well as scientists . 
The impact of industrial fisheries also requires a thorough investigation . 
We constantly receive mixed messages on this issue and we need clarity . 
Regional advisory councils are vital to the future of a sustainable EU fishing policy . 
If we are going to be successful in our objectives of cod recovery , we must work with fishermen . 
I was happy to see this week 's Commission proposal providing a blueprint for these regional advisory councils and how they would work , with two thirds of the membership of these new organisations coming from those active in the fisheries sector . 
I hope we will be able to improve dialogue and cooperation between all those concerned in order to secure a sustainable future for our industry . 
On the socio-economic impact of these measures , the Commission 's proposal does not go far enough . 
Some of the communities most directly affected are in remote areas truly on the periphery of the European Union . 
The Scottish Executive has given GBP 50 million , with GBP 40 million for decommissioning and GBP 10 million for the direct socio-economic impact . 
However , we have to be very clear that it is up to national and regional authorities to take up the possibilities available to them in assisting the sector during this difficult time . 
I would like to see Member States carrying out socio-economic impact assessments on the recovery plan . 
On the basis of these reports , we would better be able to assess the problems and to mitigate any negative effects . 
I would like to see Member States having these in place one year after the implementation of this programme . 
On fishing effort limitation , the principle of proportionality must apply . 
The reference period used must take into consideration the pain the industry has already suffered through any decommissioning process . 
On inspection control , we need to extend satellite vessel monitoring , as suggested by the House of Lords report of May 2003 . 
It seems a sensible measure and I welcome the fact that the Commission intends to come forward with a separate proposal on satellite monitoring . 
In conclusion , the revised cod recovery plan will be painful for the fishing industry and dependent communities . 
There is no point inflicting a lesser degree of pain or indeed any suffering at all if the measures implemented do not bring about the desired result . 
Yet , if stock recovery is not achieved , the outcome will be increased socio-economic hardship in any event . 
Successful recovery of the stock must be the priority . 
What is needed is a package of measures which is both effective and minimises the pain to the sector . 
Mr President , I would like to congratulate Mrs Stihler on her report and thank her for her hard work on this highly controversial issue . 
As we have heard once again , the ICES has stated that cod stocks are in such a dire state of collapse that it is recommending the complete closure of the cod fishery in the North Sea , the Irish Sea and the West of Scotland . 
It claims that years of stringent conservation measures have failed to rebuild stocks and that only the total shutdown of these fishing grounds will enable any meaningful recovery . 
Of course , we know from bitter experience , that when the scientists once again call for the complete closure of the cod fishery , they also mean the virtual closure of the haddock , whiting , plaice and prawn fisheries , where cod is caught as a by-catch . 
Let me say this now to Commissioner Fischler and say it very clearly , because if there are any more cuts at the December Council meeting this year , it will spell the end of the UK white fish fleet . 
And I do not mean any more drastic cuts like last year , I mean any more cuts at all . 
The two previous massive decommissioning rounds have reduced the British white fish fleet by around 40 % . 
The harbour workers and ancillary staff who rely on the white fish fleet for a living are now teetering on the brink of bankruptcy . 
I do not intend to attack the scientists . 
There is nothing to be gained from shooting the messenger , but this most recent ICES report once again highlights the vital importance of listening to the advice of the fishermen as well as to the boffins . 
Last year scientists told us that haddock stocks were dwindling . 
The fishermen said this was rubbish . 
Now the scientists agree that there are an estimated 400 000 tonnes of haddock spawning stock biomass in the North Sea . 
So who is right ? 
Could I in addition say that it appears the scientists are not listening to each other when arriving at their grand conclusions . 
According to new scientific research from the respected Sir Alistair Hardy Foundation in Plymouth , which has been monitoring the North Sea for the last 70 years , stocks of cold water plankton , on which cod larvae feed , have been driven hundreds of miles to the north by an unprecedented rise in water temperatures . 
This perhaps explains why there is a great abundance of cod being caught around the Faeroes , Iceland and Norway , but none left in the North Sea . 
Who has a vested interest in restoring stocks to sustainable levels ? 
It is fishermen and fishing communities and only fishing communities . 
Why then is it continually the case that they feel that their views , their interests , and particularly their expertise , are ignored in management decision-making ? 
Looking from Scotland it is impossible to justify or to accept the apparent inequitability of management decisions of late . 
Scots are using the largest mesh sizes in all of the European Union and yet are taking the biggest catch cuts , while those using smaller meshes fare better . 
Once again , we have the threat of complete closure of haddock , whiting , prawn and other fisheries related to cod allegedly . 
Yet no mention of industrial fisheries which fish for non-human consumption being curtailed . 
I am considering voting against the Stihler report , not because I am against its content which after all was substantially shaped by amendments of mine that were accepted in committee , but in protest at the likelihood that the Commission will ignore it anyway . 
It has after all repeatedly pointed out that there is no legal obligation upon it to consult regional advisory councils . 
In any case there will not be one in time for a cod recovery plan to be adopted . 
We all know that the Council 's output on this subject will probably ignore our views as well . 
Member States are very often accused , even by the Commission , of ignoring the science in their determination to defend their national interest in the Council . 
I just wish that Scotland had a Member State government which would defend its national interest in the fisheries council . 
Last December the then UK Fisheries Minister continued a long tradition of actively voting against Scotland 's interests in the Council of Ministers and the new Minister , who finally managed to get himself to Scotland this week , where 70 % of the UK fisheries fleet is based , told fishing communities to get real -- presumably asking them to accept that there will be more pain to come because he knows that he will do nothing to help . 
The social and economic pain being felt by families in Scotland 's coastal communities is very real . 
They know the realities of recent decisions and their effects on them . 
It is totally unacceptable that the UK Government has absolutely no intention , yet again , of doing anything other than increasing that pain . 
The report accepts that urgent conservation measures are required but that these must be balanced with actions to protect the economic and social interests of fisherman and ancillary workers . 
Any ban on cod fishing should not be turned into a general ban on white fishing . 
While it is important that significant numbers of cod are not caught as a by-product of other white fishing , selectivity must be applied to areas excluded from general fishing in order to allow fishermen to catch species which are not in danger . 
Mr President , I would like to start by thanking Mrs Figueiredo for her very good report and for her constant hard work within the committee . 
The proper control and monitoring of the common fisheries policy and the even-handed implementation of the rules is , of course , the only way to return a semblance of credit to this much discredited common policy . 
However , I have to say that any new control system will require the cooperation of the sector , of the fishermen themselves . 
The fishermen are rapidly losing any respect they ever may have had for this discredited policy . 
For example , take what happened last week . 
The same week as the ICES published its most recent report , calling for the complete closure of the cod fishery around Britain and Ireland , the Council of Ministers tore open the Irish Box and tore open the economic exclusion zone around the Azores and Madeira , allowing a virtual free-for-all in some of the most sensitive spawning and nursery grounds in European waters . 
This was a decision based on political pressure ; it owed nothing to conservation and everything to politics . 
It is decisions like this that have brought the whole CFP into disrepute . 
How can our fishermen believe that their endless hardship is in the name of conservation , when they see decisions like this being taken which fly in the face of common sense ? 
It is also time that the Commission tackled the disgrace of the two million tonnes of good healthy fish that are discarded dead back into the sea every year in the name of conservation . 
The public will no longer tolerate this needless waste which has become emblematic of the failed CFP . 
I am grateful to Mrs Figueiredo for trying to breathe life back into the corpse of this discredited policy , but I fear it may be too late for resuscitation . 
Mr President , the recent breakdown of the ceasefire in Nepal and the ensuing violence have led to a huge loss of life and injury . 
To achieve lasting peace in Nepal , an open and democratic society , and progress and prosperity for all , all sides must honour the armistice of 19 January as well as the code of conduct which was signed by both the Maoist insurgents and the government on 13 March 2003 . 
The announcement yesterday that the Maoist rebels will no longer carry out political killings , or destroy public utilities or infrastructure is just a crumb of comfort . 
Sadly , since the breakdown of the ceasefire , 211 people have lost their lives . 
We must ensure that we support and promote democracy and the rule of law in countries such as Nepal . 
The recent opening of an EC delegation office in Katmandu is a welcome boost to EU-Nepal relations and cooperation . 
We must ensure that we do all we can on the ground to help those suffering directly and indirectly from the unrest . 
We should increase our financial assistance in Nepal and we must ensure that the main goal is the eradication of poverty and provision of universal health and education services . 
These underlying causes of conflict must remain the target of all EU cooperation assistance to the country . 
The Commission must work in Nepal through all stages of the conflict , from supplying humanitarian aid for those suffering , to ensuring that conflict resolution and prevention programmes are launched to prevent further violence . 
The UNHCR decision to phase out assistance for these camps is worrying and comes at a time when Nepal needs continuing rather than diminishing support . 
Although Nepal has sheltered many Tibetan and Bhutanese refugees over the years , the deportation of 18 Tibetans to Tibet a few months ago is a worrying development . 
The well being of all refugees needs to be guaranteed . 
Mr President , I do not wish to go into the content of this particular opinion poll , although it certainly would have been wise for the poll to have asked what people thought of the Palestinian State and of the Palestinian Liberation Organisation . 
It is not a bad thing , however , that people know what Europe thinks . 
I would , in general , encourage the Commission to publish information of this or any other nature on the views of Europeans , to show the importance of opinion on our continent . 
Mr President , I rise on the same point which has just been made . 
I sincerely hope that you would write to the Sudanese Government and suggest that these barbaric punishments be stopped immediately : not just for this crime , but for all crimes . 
They can not continue to use Sharia law and these dreadful , horrendous punishments . 
Without making light of the concerns , is the Commissioner confident that the obstacles can be overcome by next May ? 
Moreover , on Bulgaria and Romania , a clear difference is emerging . 
I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he will give the clear signal that Sofia has asked for on the Union 's final requirements , and whether he will be tough with the Romanians on the very substantial progress that Romania still has to make . 
I welcomed the Commissioner 's remarks on Turkey . 
The reforms of Prime Minister Erdogan 's government are real and must be welcomed . 
Mr President , I share the opinion already expressed by many in this House . 
I have to say that during the Convention , in which I was proud to take part as an alternate member , I respected - though I did not always agree with - the positions taken by the United Kingdom Government representatives . 
They made their position clear , they sometimes took an unpopular stand , but on the whole they stood on a given ground and we reached a conclusion and compromises . 
Sometimes I would have liked them to have taken a different line , for example , a stronger line in relation to the unsatisfactorily readjusted sections on fisheries in parts I and III . 
As Mr Corbett bravely pointed out , although governments could have voiced reservations or come forward with different views on matters that were central to the discussion at the Convention , nothing was said . 
Both Mr Duff and Mr Méndez de Vigo made the point that these matters were extensively , not inadequately , discussed at the Convention . 
Now , suddenly , on the core issue of the budget , the ECOFIN Council and , I am afraid , the UK Chancellor of the Exchequer with it , says that the Convention 's entire proposal makes no sense and that a completely new order needs to be brought about . 
That , surely , is about the most unsatisfactory way of conducting things that can be imagined . 
I criticise the UK Government it is not the only government at fault but we should all be calling upon all governments involved to get their acts together and get this thing finished reasonably quickly and on the basis of the Convention . 
Mr President , I hope I will be forgiven for moving from matters of life and death to more commercial matters . 
This House , in its role as legislator , is deeply concerned about intellectual property and the need to protect holders ' rights in the interests of consumers and of fair play . 
It is all the more alarming if the holders of the rights themselves abuse the rights to the disadvantage of consumers . 
However , now Diageo is producing something called Cardhu pure malt whisky . 
Not all Members of this House may be aware of it , but there is a very big difference between pure malt whisky -- which is a blend of various malts -- and single malt , which comes from a single malt distillery . 
It is vital to the health of this Scottish and European industry that consumer trust is maintained and that sharp practice by producers is eliminated as quickly as possible . 
Mr President , please write to the chief executive and get Diageo to stop this ! 
Mr President , research using supernumerary embryonic stem cells is necessary to bring closer the day when adult stem cells can be used therapeutically to cure ` dread diseases ' . 
I am sure that goal is desired by everyone . 
Parliament 's previous compromise was accepted by an absolute majority of this House . 
This restricts funding of research by the European Union only to embryos which are surplus to IVF requirements and are destined for destruction only at the undifferentiated stage of development up to 14 days and only in those jurisdictions where there is effective and strict regulation and it is permitted by law . 
The suggestion that the European Union can not fund ventures that are not permitted in any one Member State opens an absurd and dangerous precedent . 
What about nuclear research and the growing of the tobacco ? 
I should like to tell Mrs Breyer that Germany permits research on embryos , even if German embryos are exempt . 
What is the purpose of a cut-off date ? 
If it is valid to use embryos produced before a date , can it be invalid to use embryos produced after that date ? 
An amendment by Mr Nisticò is flawed by the fact that it restricts itself to stem cell lines and not to embryos . 
Do we have so little trust in European IVF practitioners that they might be tempted to overproduce embryos for ulterior purposes ? 
That is surely an unjustified calumny on an honourable profession . 
Is it more Christian to walk by on the other side and leave our fellow human beings lying in the ditch on the road to Jericho , smitten by Parkinson 's Disease , Alzheimer 's Disease or spinal injury ? 
God gave us humans inquiring minds , the ability to tame nature , the brains and skills to improve our lot on earth . 
Yes , we must respect human dignity and I completely respect my colleagues ' strongly held views as to what human dignity is . 
However , I ask is it an early-stage embryo destined in any case for destruction , or is it your parents struck with Parkinson 's Disease , or your teenage son paralysed with a broken neck ? 
The Research Committee 's considered position -- Amendment 10 -- is a position we must support . 
We must persuade the Council of Ministers to do likewise . 
Mr President , I will be brief because I have lost my voice -- and I do not mean politically , I mean physically ! 
It is clear that a battle royal is going on within one of our larger Member States . 
The main protagonists in that battle royal happen to be the current President of the Commission and the current President of the Council . 
It would be unrealistic to suggest that people in such positions have not had a political past , or do not have a political future to look forward to . 
There is a question mark over whether the occupants of those posts should be engaged to such an extent in such a political battle while holding those offices . 
But it would be naïve of us to assume that such battles will not continue , and indeed naïve of this Parliament not to imagine that such people will take those positions . 
Mr Nielson , there was a long debate about this earlier this morning and you must accept that there is very little time between now and 1 July 2004 for all ships and ports to comply with the requirements of the ISPS Code , especially with the lack of total clarity at the moment . 
The financial risk to businesses that can not comply with the code is enormous . 
What about flags other than European flags ? 
Even if our own Member States comply , could there not be a substantial risk that many other ships will not be complying by then and will not therefore be allowed into European ports ? 
Has the Commission tried to make any assessment of the impact on European and even world trade if there is not full compliance by 1 July 2004 ? 
The Secretary-General of my Group stated that she would have liked to have had the opportunity to discuss that report , along with other reports , at our group meeting before the part-session . 
We understood the report was being deferred until the second December sitting in Strasbourg , and so we did not have the opportunity to discuss it . 
Furthermore , I learned that there was a defect in paragraph 2 of the report as it was adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market , but I have not seen any of the adjustments to it . 
As I am the rapporteur , I would have liked to have seen such adjustments . 
On these grounds , with the greatest respect and with regret to my colleague , Mr Gargani , I ask that this matter be deferred until the next Strasbourg sitting . 
Mr President , all eyes are on efforts to agree a Constitutional Treaty before the year is out . 
The irony of our leaders making new rules for the European Union only days after breaking the Stability Pact will not be lost on our citizens . 
At the same time , we look to the European Council to shoulder its responsibility , to stand up for the rights of European citizens who continue to be held in Guantanamo Bay . 
In Naples , our Foreign Ministers managed to move closer to agreement only by moving further away from the Convention text . 
My group regrets that the tide of reform will not now rise to the high water mark set by the Convention . 
The Convention 's extension of codecision to budgetary powers would have made the European Union more accountable and transparent . 
No viable parliamentary democracy can exist without the power of the purse . 
The obduracy of finance ministers on this matter is a battle pitting raw politics against the principle of reform . 
I welcome the remarks of the President of the Commission . 
We must not cede on this point . 
We also have to resolve the issue of voting weights so that the efficiency and accountability gains promised by the Convention are not entirely lost . 
To us , what really killed the Stability Pact was certain countries confusing their power to break the law with the right to do so . 
In Guantanamo Bay , the United States has fallen victim to the same confusion . 
America was founded on the principle that the free are governed by laws , not men . 
Countries have borders , but principles do not . 
There is no line on a map beyond which such values no longer hold . 
The prison at Guantanamo Bay squanders a precious American legacy and surrenders vital high ground . 
For two years the 660 men and boys in Camp Delta have been denied the rights of prisoners of war or of civilian criminals . 
They have been charged with no crimes . 
The military commissions that will judge them will grant no right of appeal and no access to an effective defence . 
Sadly , the standards of detention and justice at Guantanamo Bay are unworthy of a country with America 's proud history of civil liberties . 
While I welcome the news that some detainees may shortly be repatriated , winning a reprieve from this disgrace for a few Australians and a few Europeans renders more stark the injustice committed to those who will be left behind . 
Europe must press for every man and boy in Guantanamo Bay to be either immediately charged , face justice in their home country or be released , regardless of nationality . 
President-in-Office , I hope that will be high on your agenda . 
I call upon this House to demand of the European Council an unequivocal statement of Europe 's dismay , and I call upon our President to convey that message . 
I call upon the European Union 's leaders to ensure that bilateral deals do not silence Europe on the greater principles at stake . 
The Liberal Group adds its support to calls for the European Parliament and for the Council to submit an Amicus Brief to the US Supreme Court on behalf of the detainees . 
Two of our greatest enemies in the fight against terror are the fear that makes us cheapen our freedoms and the power that makes us cynical of them . 
If you at the Council can find the will to do justice to our enemy , then we will already have won . 
Mr President , I should like to address a theme raised by the President-in-Office of the Council which nobody else has yet spoken about but which , for more than one person in this House , is of great moment and significance . 
The President-in-Office mentioned that the question is being raised as to whether the minimum number of MEPs per state is too low . 
Is it wrong to retain a relatively low basic membership in a new and enlarging Union ? 
Let us pause and reflect upon this . 
At the moment , in Britain which is composed of three nations , England , Scotland and Wales Wales is currently represented in this House by five Members . 
After the new Constitution comes into effect , if it does , the number of Members representing Wales in this House will drop to four . 
Malta will have five . 
I do not object at all to Malta having five Members : it is a fine thing for small countries to have proper representation . 
As a Scot , how could I think otherwise ? 
We must not forget , however , that the principle of degressive proportionality has a deep justification . 
Degressive proportionality says that every state in this Union must be represented in this House by a sufficient number of MEPs so as fully to express the political diversity of that state . 
Rightly , therefore , even the 400 000 citizens of Malta should have at least five Members , but perhaps no more . 
If you insist , rightly , on keeping a maximum ceiling of membership , the upshot of increasing yet further the degressive proportionality threshold above five will be to cut the representation of significant parts of existing Member States . 
In the debates we had about the competences of the Union , Mr Lamassoure reminded the House of the importance of partner regions , countries like Flanders , Galicia , Euskadi and , indeed , Scotland . 
These are significant parts in the Union . 
If you cut their representation you deny them the degressive proportionality on which you rightly insist for countries such as Malta or Cyprus . 
Do not do that . 
This is not a trivial point . 
At the Convention , as a Member representing Scotland , I tried many times to alert colleagues to the significance of entrenching certain aspects of the common fisheries policy that are unacceptable to us . 
I was not heeded . 
The upshot of that is that it will be impossible for me , as a strong supporter of this idea of a European Constitution , to persuade my political colleagues in Scotland to back ratification of the text because I now know that on that point it will not be changed . 
My appeal was neglected . 
Had I been representing a larger force I might have been heard . 
Do not neglect degressive proportionality for the of the states of the Union in insisting on it for the states . 
Mr President , the obituaries for the Stability Pact have been written before and then held back as the patient lurched on , if only on life support . 
What we witnessed last week was finance ministers giving the last rites to rules which were intended to guarantee the long-term stability of our currency and economy . 
Of course , the guilty parties deny all responsibility , or claim ` the Pact is dead , long live the Pact ' . 
But the truth is that the eurozone 's two leading economies have sent a message to all the small countries in the eurozone , and to the acceding countries , which reads ` do as we say , not as we do ' . 
And I should like to point out to Mr Tremonti that the Italian presidency has failed in its duty by acting as an associate in the endeavours of the countries concerned to flout the Pact , rather than ensuring that the rules were respected . 
Unless our leaders agree on a revised and workable framework for fiscal stability , and inscribe this in our basic law , then we are left with nothing but a broken gentlemen 's agreement . 
Countries which gave up their currencies on the understanding that they would not be expected to pay for the debts of their neighbours have a right to demand more than that . 
That is why my Group welcomes the stand taken by Commissioner Solbes and the Commission 's intentions to make proposals to reshape the rules . 
If you kill off the Pact in its existing form , you have a responsibility to commit yourself to an agreed interpretation of a set of rules to prevent a borrowing free-for-all . 
Liberal Democrats believe that a well-run economy and a stable currency require taxes and spending to be in balance over the course of the business cycle . 
The problem is not the 3 % deficit limit ; the problem is the failure of countries to consolidate their budgets in terms of growth . 
My surprise at hearing the leader of the Socialist Group in this House agree with us is matched only by my delight at his conversion . 
The revised rules should provide sticks and carrots to ensure that we take advantage of periods of economic growth to run budgets in balance or in surplus and reduce national debt . 
Countries which operate a responsible policy in the good times could benefit from more flexibility in bad times to let borrowing take the strain . 
These rules should provide for early action against countries which do not control their deficits in periods of growth , to force them to take corrective measures . 
A new target for the underlying budget balance could be added , and government expenditure on investment should also be taken into account . 
The European Commission should have greater authority to police these new rules , since national governments have shown that they can not be trusted to do so . 
This has been a bad week for the rule of law in the European Union . 
My Group hopes that at the summit in Brussels our leaders will recognise their responsibility to salvage , from the wreckage of the Stability Pact , some credibility for Europe 's fiscal policy . 
. Mr President , my report is on the proposal for tripartite contracts and agreements between the European authorities and the Member States , and local and regional authorities . 
This is , one might think , rather a mouthful for what is essentially a simple idea . 
The point is , as the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy pointed out in its opinion on this matter , much of the implementation of important aspects of European policy environmental policy , regional policy and other policies , including transport is carried out in Member States at a level of government below that of the centralised state government . 
And yet there is a danger of inadequate connection between the Commission , at the centre , and local and regional government . 
Any steps that can be taken to improve these connections are greatly to be welcomed and much to be encouraged . 
The Commission 's proposal on tripartite contracts and agreements is a proposal for precisely such an improvement , and therefore my Group strongly welcomes it . 
The Committee on Constitutional Affairs , the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market , and the Environment Committee also welcome it and wish to carry it forward . 
One of the first pilot arrangements in terms of a tripartite agreement was among cities . 
It was based on the idea of a sustainable city for example Birmingham , Stockholm and other cities in the Union . 
It was about trying to figure out ways to make sustainability make sense . 
One of the interesting facts I discovered in reading a report on that pilot project was that the city of Birmingham could write to the central government in London and go for weeks or months without receiving a reply . 
Central governments in Member States are often very bad at maintaining adequate contact with local and city authorities and with city regions . 
If we are going to make progress in implementing policies in Europe , it is obvious that we must make sure there is interaction between central government , local government and government at the European level . 
It is important to stress and I address in particular my friend and opponent Mr Bradbourn on this point that this suggestion for tripartite contracts and agreements is not only a suggestion about regional government of which I know Mr Bradbourn disapproves it is also a suggestion about local government , of which I rather think he and his party strongly approve . 
We must ensure that there is real contact and connectivity and that we get things moving . 
Sometimes in this House we use the word ` region ' in a very misleading sense . 
For example , Scotland , the constituency which I represent , is for some purposes called a region . 
But most of the inhabitants of Scotland think it is a nation within a multinational state . 
And Scotland itself has extremely varied regions . 
Only yesterday I was visiting the South of Scotland Partnership , who were discussing some of the particular problems facing the rural south of Scotland , which is very different linguistically , culturally , socially and agriculturally from central Scotland and from highland Scotland . 
They raised with me the problem of the town - the old borough . 
Nowadays it is very difficult to sustain small towns . 
Cities and regions have great identity but towns , in our local government system , have lost that . 
The sustainable city is currently being trialled as a pilot project . 
What about the sustainable town ? 
We must look at governance in Europe at many levels : the region , the locality , and entities which are lower than the locality in terms of current governmental structures . 
The report adopted by the Constitutional Affairs Committee needs to be amended , not in such a way as to break the spirit of what was agreed in that Committee , but in a way that completes that spirit by building in some of the points agreed on by the Environment Committee , all of the points agreed on by the Legal Affairs Committee , and some of the things which have emerged from the pilot projects under way . 
I strongly commend the report in its amended form to the House , and I very much hope that it will be carried in the vote tomorrow . 
. Mr President , this new agreement between the European Community and Mozambique was initialled on 21 October 2002 . 
The agreement is for three years , and the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities , the financial compensation and the technical annex form an integral part of the agreement and enters into force on 1 January 2004 . 
The main fisheries connected to this agreement are , of course , deepwater shrimp and tuna . 
As the Commissioner knows , we have had considerable controversy in the past concerning some of these international third-country agreements . 
Indeed , last year we worked very closely with the Commission to produce a template : the Senegal agreement . 
I make no apologies here for moving from the east coast of Africa to the west coast : the Senegal agreement broke new ground in introducing innovative new ways of dealing with third-country agreements , which we have continued to put in place ever since . 
In the case of Senegal , we insisted that 60 % of the financial compensation should be for fishing opportunities and 40 % should be for conservation and development . 
We insisted that half of the crews on the EU vessels should be Senegalese , that a considerable quantity of the catch should be processed in the fish processing plants in Senegal and that VMS monitoring be fitted in all vessels involved . 
In every respect , this was seen as a good package that delivered the development and conservation values , provided a sustainable fishery , continued to provide jobs for EU fishermen , and continued to supply the EU with high-quality fish . 
In the EU we are only 60 % self-sufficient in fishery products ; there is a rising consumer demand for more fish , and fish stocks are falling in the Community 's waters . 
It is important that through the Senegal agreement , and the subsequent agreements we have achieved since then , we are trying to continue with this pattern in order to continue to provide these kinds of sustainable fisheries agreements . 
If we abandon these agreements , we would have a free-for-all . 
In these circumstances , if we act via the EU , we have a better opportunity for monitoring the way these agreements work . 
In the case of the Mozambique agreement , we are asking the Commission to report to the Council and to the European Parliament on the application and implementation of the agreement one year before it ends . 
If we find that these conditions have not been adhered to , then we will not mandate the Commission to enter into further agreements with Mozambique . 
In this case , we have a report of an abundance of deepwater shrimp and tuna in this area . 
We are going to give fishing opportunities for ten vessels fishing for 1000 tonnes per year of deepwater shrimp - and an additional 535 tonne by-catch - 35 freezer tuna seiners and 14 surface longliners fishing for 8000 tonnes of tuna . 
The financial package is EUR 4 090 000 per annum . 
In this case it is not a question of 60 % for fishing opportunities and 40 % for development ; all of it is going towards conservation and development - EUR 1.5 million for monitoring marine fisheries , EUR 1 million for institutional development , EUR 1 million for research , EUR 430 000 for training , EUR 100 000 for quality control and EUR 60 000 to help Mozambique participate in international meetings . 
This is a very good package and I commend it to the House . 
Mr President , on the last occasion we met I raised a question about the Scotch whisky industry which was of considerable public concern . 
You very kindly , on behalf of the House , took it up with Commissioner Byrne , who is fortuitously here present . 
I am glad to report that the Scotch Whisky Association has reached a consensual settlement of that difficult question for the time being . 
I hope that it will be possible for the whole matter to be resolved through satisfactory industry standards . 
Mr President , you will no doubt recall as vividly as I do the late nights in Luxembourg in June 2001 when we last went through this exercise , followed by the heated third-reading debate in this House shortly thereafter , which was lost by a tie . 
It is worth reminding ourselves that although technically we are now at first reading , this is in fact a fourth reading , even just for those of us who have participated in the present Parliament . 
We have been through this a long way and I myself am one of those who think that if we can bring it to a successful conclusion this time , then we should do so . 
I take the point made by Mr Huhne and Mr Bolkestein that there are further problems we did not have before . 
It is perhaps a little like the story of the Sybilline Books . 
The first time they were offered as a set of 12 and Tarquin refused them . 
Three of them were then burned and they were offered as a set of nine at a higher price : each time the price goes up and the quality goes down . 
Maybe that is so , or maybe not , but we are now in a position where we have to make up our minds . 
My Group is firmly of the conviction that we must take full and proper account of employees ' rights in this context . 
Employees are not just pawns on the chess board . 
Employees are the people who make companies work and make them function effectively . 
Their interests have to be taken fairly and fully into account . 
Their right to consultation and information has to be taken seriously . 
On that account , my Group will certainly vote for the sets of amendments agreed between us , the GUE/NGL Group and the PSE Group when the vote is held tomorrow . 
Thereafter we are of two minds : some of us are firmly of the view that we should adhere to this to the last , and that if they are not carried then we will vote against the directive in its present form . 
If that means the compromise collapses then it will simply have to go to second reading , and so on . 
Others - and I am one of those others - think that the time has come to reach a conclusion . 
I shall vote for these amendments , but at the end of the day I shall try to get this through at this reading . 
I should like to pick up on a couple of points . 
It is a key point here . 
I accept the point that Mrs Niebler and the Commissioner made that the market is not yet developed . 
That is why , in a number of amendments , we ask the Commission to study the whole market and ensure that when we finally bring in a mandatory system at a later date , the whole area is covered . 
I should like to add that we have also gauged the points of view of the Member States and given them responsibility for defining low-risk activities , i.e. taking them out . 
That is a major step forwards for businesses of all shapes and sizes . 
With regard to the Commissioner 's point on Member State responsibility , I realise that he had difficulties over the last few months negotiating with the Council on this point and that it has not been easy . 
However , we have to come to a situation where if somebody defaults , or an operator goes into insolvency and does not have this insurance , somebody has to clean up . 
Who is it going to be ? 
It can not fall on the local authorities ; it has to fall on a Member State and we can not allow Member States to just walk away from it and allow pollution to continue to grow . 
Therefore the Member States have a responsibility . 
Briefly , on the mitigating circumstances , I am glad to see that the Commissioner is accepting Amendments Nos 40 and 61 . 
I hope they go through . 
And I am glad to see the mitigating circumstances taken into account , along with permit defences . 
Mr President , I agree with what my friend and colleague , Mr Miller , was just saying . 
At the moment it is a pious platitude to say that the polluter pays - polluters on the whole do not pay or pay only a small part of what they should pay . 
It would be a great thing to move forward to a situation where it becomes a principle of law and not a pious platitude that polluters have to pay . 
The degree of detail and specificity of what is permitted varies from situation to situation . 
In these circumstances , to have an all-or-nothing principle - either something is covered by a permit and , therefore , exempt from any liability , or it is not covered and fully liable - seems like a mistake . 
It seems right to adopt a principle of mitigation so that there is a sliding scale taking account of the variability of permits and circumstances . 
The Commissioner also talked about nuclear liability . 
I happen to be the rapporteur for the still stalled report on the reform of the Paris Convention . 
I take his point that this will expand the range and level of liability of nuclear operators , but it remains the case , unhappily , that nuclear power still travels in a boat of its own , subject to a rather special exception to the ` polluter-pays ' principle - the polluter pays quite a lot , but not necessarily everything in that case . 
We are also concerned about going too easy on the GMO cases . 
There are other points I could make , but there are many speakers in this debate . 
We are very strongly in favour of this directive and hope that it will leave this House in a really strong form . 
Mr President , Liberals in this House expected rather more from the presidency of a country with a proud European tradition . 
In six short months , the presidency has conspired to undermine the Stability Pact , has shown contempt for the European Union 's policy towards Russia and offended Canada . 
The President-in-Office has treated us to a 40-minute catalogue of the achievements of his term of office . 
Yet it is hard to escape the conclusion that this presidency and IGC have been a personal failure for the President of the European Council . 
The ` piece of paper ' in Mr Berlusconi 's pocket turned out to be a - stained napkin with a few bad jokes scribbled on it . 
While the Americans were digging Saddam Hussein out of a hole in Iraq to global acclaim , our leaders were digging themselves into a hole in Brussels . 
A successful summit needed two things : political will on the part of the major countries , and skilful diplomatic leadership . 
It showed neither . 
This IGC was not fated to fail it chose to . 
Five countries walked away from an agreement which everybody needed but none of them wanted enough . 
Especially with a crowded agenda ahead which includes negotiations on the next financial perspectives , talks on Turkish membership and elections in Spain , Britain and Italy . 
So after a short post-mortem , the IGC must resume and must conclude its work under the Irish presidency . 
The Irish have Mr Ahern , one of Europe 's most seasoned negotiators , and Mr Cox , the President of our own House , whose joy at the Charlemagne Prize we share . 
It may be possible to relaunch the European Union . 
I would like to underline the extent of the concern felt by Liberal Democrats and Reformers in this House and beyond and our feeling that the actions of the larger Member States are plunging the European Union into a crisis which could endanger the democratic nature of our Union . 
The summit conclusions are also a disappointment to us . 
There is nothing on Guantanamo Bay , despite the explicit demand of this House that our leaders should uphold the rights of the detainees . 
On Russia , the conclusions scandalously make no reference to elections which the OSCE called ' a regression in the democratisation process ' . 
The decision to bring the People 's Republic of China into the Galileo programme seems to have encouraged talk of the lifting of the European embargo on selling arms to the world 's only significant remaining Communist dictatorship . 
On all these issues , the Council behaved as if it is ashamed of our values or ignorant of them altogether . 
At your press conference after the summit , President-in-Office , you said that but for the IGC , your presidency would be remembered as ` the most glorious of recent years ' . 
Yet agreement on the five issues mentioned by the President of the Commission represents a meagre return on a presidency in which such high hopes were invested . 
If this was a glorious success , I would be fascinated to know your definition of a failure . 
You set your presidency the target of a Constitution by Christmas . 
By your own standards , you have failed . 
. In the wake of the breakdown of IGC negotiations on the proposed draft Constitution of the European Union , I welcome the breathing space which will result . 
I urge the UK Government to make maximum use of this interval to review its position on key areas of concern to Scotland . 
The reference to marine biological resource conservation must be removed from the list of exclusive competences . 
The example set by many small nations , independently negotiating their own terms and conditions at the IGC , underlines the need for Scotland to regain her independence and therefore the full rights of participation and voting in all international negotiations . 
Mr President , it is a particular pleasure to be called to speak immediately following Mr Rothley , who has done so very much during the whole of this Parliament to bring the matter to the conclusion that we seem now to be at the point of reaching . 
He has paid compliments to other colleagues , so let me pay a very warm compliment to him . 
It has been a great pleasure to work with him on this matter . 
It is something to be welcomed by us all that , provided the Council keeps its eye on the ball , we shall have a proper Members ' Statute before the next elections . 
It is absolutely critical to these elections . 
I shall not be a candidate myself , so I speak without a personal interest in the matter . 
Indeed , I will be 63 when I retire , but not on this pension scheme . 
It is essential to have a proper expenses regime and to have a common salary . 
I have been rapporteur several times on privileges and immunities under the existing protocol . 
It must be said that it is an extremely labyrinthine and arcane system and not a satisfactory basis for the privileges and immunities of a House of this kind . 
Therefore , although this matter is not going to be brought home at this stage , I would echo the proposition that we must work hard in the near future to get the whole issue of privileges and immunities put on a proper footing as well . 
Mr President , today we have a chance to remove the barriers which have held back meaningful discussion on the whole question of the Statute of Members . 
If we can make progress on the Statute , then we can tackle the thorny question of our own expenses . 
Because of the covert way in which we MEPs are paid expenses , we have left ourselves wide open to criticism . 
The Statute and the reform of the expenses are inextricably linked ; they go hand in hand , as Mr Rothley clearly pointed out . 
Therefore , while we are asking the Council to make progress on the Statute , I am asking Parliament to make progress on reform of the expenses scheme because , if we bring in a system that is clear , unambiguous and fair as regards our expenses , then we can face the electorate with confidence again next June . 
Mr President , my Group asked me to give an explanation on its behalf . 
Simply and briefly it is a point which concerns paragraph 2 ( b ) . 
As I said in the debate in the morning , we are very strongly in favour of reform of the Protocol concerning Privileges and Immunities . 
So we voted against paragraph 2 ( b ) , not because we oppose reform but because it is too generous a model for reform . 
The basis for this should be the study carried out by the Wise Persons Group . 
Another aspect which we support is national taxation . 
All along we have supported the concept that MEPs should be treated no differently in the area of taxation from other residents in their Member States . 
Importantly we are also finishing today the reform of the whole issue of expenses . 
For too long the expenses issue has dogged the Parliament , and we now have the opportunity to put this to rest . 
My Question 54 , which is due to be taken later though I suspect we will not reach it , is closely related to this . 
In the UK , the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children has produced compelling evidence that shows that paedophiles are moving from one Member State of the European Union to another to take advantage of differences in the law . 
For example , in the UK there is a register for child-sex offenders . 
We find that people who would not be able to work with children in the UK move to other Member States of the Union in order to take advantage of the lack of such a register . 
In light of what the Commissioner has said about the need for greater judicial and police cooperation , would the Commission consider taking an initiative to create a European-wide sex offenders register , so that these people can be monitored ? 
I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he could confirm that the moratorium on research into using embryonic stem cells is about to be lifted , and that the Commission will be prepared to consider , and potentially fund , applications for research involving embryonic stem cells on the basis of Parliament 's resolution of 19 November 2003 , which he mentioned . 
Mr President , since this is the season of good will , could you use the good offices of the presidency of Parliament to resolve a situation which has occurred in London ? 
I understand that the UK Independence Party , that august organisation , has locked out all the staff from the European Parliament office in London . 
Mr President , I thank Mrs Aaltonen , the rapporteur , and Louise McVay , who brought the petition leading to this report on multiple sclerosis . 
Mr Whitehead , one of Louise 's East Midlands MEPs , has had to leave to take part in a vote on another vital health matter , and he sends his apologies . 
MS affects people in different ways : some days can be good , some days can be bad . 
However , it is a deteriorating condition with no cause and no cure . 
I became involved in working on the issue after meeting an active group of Scottish MS patients . 
They contacted me , told me of the impact the disease has on their daily lives , and made me aware that Scotland has the highest rate of MS in the world . 
I have since sponsored the first European MS Awareness Seminar , held in the European Parliament , and set up Parliament 's MS interest group . 
No discrimination at the workplace would be a good start . 
Access to medicines and new treatments is essential . 
It is timely that just yesterday this Parliament voted in a new pharmaceutical package that hopefully will lead not only to more innovation but also to better access to cheaper medicines . 
I am glad that some British hospitals have now introduced MS nurses . 
MS patients deserve better . 
Mr President , I would like to thank all the Members of this House who have signed this declaration . 
We are dealing here with three separate aspects : cruelty , consumer fraud and recently we discovered that these pelts are toxic as well . 
The majority of Council Ministers at the meeting in November agreed to a ban . 
The majority of Members of this House have agreed to a ban . 
The majority of the citizens of the European Union want a ban . 
It is now up to the Commission to impose a ban . 
I hope that the willingness of the House to support this is being listened to by the Commission . 
For any other Members who wish to join in this success story , the declaration will remain open for 20 minutes after this sitting ! 
Mr President , just before Christmas we had the annual Brussels pantomime , otherwise known as the Council of Fisheries Ministers , which deliberated on catch quotas for 2004 , along with longer-term recovery measures for cod . 
For the second successive year the outcome for Scots coastal and island communities was a disaster . 
Incredibly the UK Government-led ministerial team actually volunteered Scotland for this suicidal package ! 
It is little wonder that many Scots have now completely lost faith in the CFP . 
I am calling on the European Commission to look again at this package and to accept that the unworkable and discriminatory nature of its regulation must be re-examined . 
Today it took an average of 40 to 45 minutes to get through . 
I am really speaking on behalf of some very stressed-out passengers from the Interpretation Service and for staff who were in tears at the thought they might not get on the plane . 
Could you perhaps ask that these facilities be improved ? 
Mr President , with reference to Mr Poignant 's report , I voted against the notion that the EU flag should appear on all EU vessels . 
The diversity of the European Union is something to celebrate and not to eliminate . 
I look forward to the day when an independent Scotland will have its flag on its vessels and in many other places , choosing if and when it is appropriate to have the EU flag alongside . 
I do not believe that this is one of the occasions when that is either appropriate , necessary or desirable . 
Mr President , today 's vote on nuclear waste is most timely , given that research recently showed that over half the UK sites identified as potential nuclear dumps are located in Scotland . 
My Group today voted against the nuclear package because it offers nothing in terms of environmental safety . 
Furthermore , my party will continue to fight against Scotland becoming a nuclear dustbin . 
The Scottish National Party 's vision of an independent Scotland is one of a clean , green Scotland profiting from our natural heritage and healthy environment . 
London , by contrast , seems to think that the rule when considering nuclear-waste dumps should be ` the further away the better ' , and regards Scotland as the ideal place . 
The people of Scotland will simply not stand for this treatment and my party will continue to fight against this filthy industry . 
. Mr President , any petition which receives 1.9 million signatures deserves to be treated seriously . 
I congratulate Mr De Rossa on his excellent report and the way in which he presented it today . 
Firstly , can the Commissioner confirm that the action plan only covers tropical areas , and in particular the continent of Africa , and does not in any way impinge on hunting in the European Union , as some people are interpreting it ? 
Sensible action is vital and urgent for three reasons . 
Firstly , as Mr De Rossa has said , at least 150 million of the world 's poorest people regard wildlife as a vital livelihood asset . 
Commercial hunting , the exploitation of timber and the opening-up of the forests are destroying the ecological balance and depriving local inhabitants of their food and livelihood . 
Secondly , the totally indiscriminate killing of great ape species will wipe out gorillas and chimpanzees , which in countries such as Rwanda are a major sustainable tourist attraction and source of income that will be lost forever . 
The devastation of forests will also obliterate an ecology if logging is not urgently brought under control . 
There is a third even more important point . 
The illegal exporting of bushmeat to all corners of the globe could have a devastating effect on health that would make SARS look like the common cold . 
Many gorillas and chimpanzees carry SIV , the animal equivalent of HIV , which can jump to humans -- and has done so . 
That would be bad enough , but if ebola-infected meat reaches the world market , we could see a catastrophe far worse than HIV . 
Recently , 2 000 monkey noses were found in a suitcase at Amsterdam airport , showing that the illegal trade is thriving . 
This resolution urges the Commission to adopt a series of measures , which I hope it will . 
However , making Heads of State in bushmeat countries aware of the situation and getting them , as the Commissioner has said , to take the lead in action to safeguard ecosystems and the wildlife they support would be a major step forward . 
Madam President , I hope you will not penalise my speaking time if I add my protest to that of Mr Varela . 
As Chairman of the Committee on Fisheries , I am fed up with the Committee 's items being kicked around on the agenda from one day to the next . 
It was on the agenda for this morning 's debate and here we are now , with half the members of the Committee who have asked to speak in the debate having to come back this evening . 
What way is this to organise diaries ? 
Firstly , I congratulate the rapporteur on this excellent own-initiative report . 
It was Mr Varela 's idea that the Fisheries Committee should conduct in-depth investigations into some of the major species of fish , and what could be more appropriate than starting with tuna , a species of global importance now worth in excess of USD 2 billion per year . 
World production of canned tuna is over two million tonnes a year , while the trade in fresh tuna is also burgeoning . 
We held a special hearing in our Committee on this issue , with many industry experts giving evidence . 
In addition , the Sustainable Development Intergroup organised a seminar in Brussels last November entitled ` Tuna Fleet and Industry : Prospects for the Future ' , at which we had a wide range of international speakers . 
I wish to concentrate on one important aspect of the report , namely the AIDCP -- or Agreement on the International Dolphin Conservation Program -- to which the EU is a signatory , as is the United States and most of the tuna-producing nations of Central and South America . 
It is the most reliable method for ensuring that tuna is dolphin safe . 
I thoroughly endorse that analysis . 
One of these private certification schemes , promoted by the Californian NGO Earth Island , has dominated the canned tuna market for some years . 
It is estimated that over 97 % of all canned tuna in Europe carries their ` dolphin safe ' label . 
However , their ` dolphin safe ' label is not turtle safe or shark safe . 
I very much endorse the support that Mr Varela 's report has given to the AIDCP label and hope the Commission will push for this label to be used exclusively on canned tuna in the EU . 
Madam President , tuna is one of the most popular fish in the EU and also one of the most commercially valuable . 
Most people 's experience of eating tuna is through access to the canned product . 
However , fresh tuna has become more popular and is readily available to consumers in my country , Scotland . 
That is why paragraph 11 in the resolution , stating that the product 's origin should be identified and that there should be full and accurate information for consumers on the type of tuna packed and on the ingredients , is so important . 
As many of my colleagues have said , the accurate labelling of dolphin-friendly tuna is important in order to reassure consumers that what they are eating does not damage vulnerable species . 
This directly links in to the recent proposal by the Commission on cetacean by-catches and the resulting protection of these at-risk species . 
The protection of dolphins and other cetaceans is of concern to many of my constituents , especially many schoolchildren whom I meet . 
That is why inspection of third-country products is important not just in terms of health , but also in terms of consumer information . 
This report highlights conservation-friendly approaches and I welcome it as a basis for sustainable fishing . 
Commissioner , the word ` hope ' appeared several times in your initial response . 
There seemed to be a certain amount of ` hope ' rather than ` expectation ' . 
Could you give your estimation as to what you think we can get from Syria as regards its relationship with Lebanon as well as its occupation of that country and its support for Hizbollah ? 
Madam President , when I wrote my report on HIV/AIDS two years ago , I was not sure what the outcome would be . 
However , I am delighted that the EU , the Commission and this Parliament have done quite a lot , as many speakers , including the Commissioner , have said . 
However , I want you to focus on an African woman who is suffering and dying from HIV/AIDS , TB or malaria . 
If she were to watch CNN what does she see and hear ? 
This is essential , but it is a lot of money in relation to the US commitment of EUR 15 billion over 5 years for HIV/AIDS , of which 10 000 people are dying every day . 
So , this lady sees terrorism in Istanbul , New York and Saudi Arabia . 
How does she feel when she sees all these billions of euro that we spend to renovate buildings that have been destroyed and which are then destroyed again ? 
The pledges -- which are very worthy indeed -- for the reconstruction of Iraq made by countries like the United States amount to EUR 75 billion . 
What is their contribution to the fight against HIV/AIDS , TB and malaria ? 
That is where the European Union has been tremendous , very generous and is showing the way for the rest of the world . 
I also look to the oil-rich countries . 
How much are they contributing ? 
What about Japan and others ? 
If we are to address this issue we have to be serious and put it into context , because the people who are suffering are poor , sick , oppressed , not free to work and live in harsh conditions . 
They have no water or electricity , they have no tools to till their land , and nor are they near the sea . 
What chance do they have ? 
That is why it is important to EU aid and to go back to the basics of life such as water and access to energy , because these people are already spending their whole day looking for water and firewood to cook their next meal . 
I know this Parliament is behind him . 
Let us go for it and make sure that this year and beyond we can achieve what we set out to do . 
Madam President , I should like to thank Mr Bébéar for his excellent report . 
NEPAD is a vision , a concept in the minds of African heads of state , covering the whole African continent , and sets out a strategic framework for Africa 's renewal . 
This vision must include a democratic voice via a parliament and the involvement of civil society . 
It is , however , the African Union that should be the main instigator of policies laid down under NEPAD , based on regional integration . 
The objectives and principles are everything that we in Europe would ask for and insist on , including eradication of poverty , raising the status of Africa on the world scene , making good governance a basic requirement , building a peaceful , secure and stable continent able to energise its economies to take advantage of world trade , and trying to ensure that the millennium development goals in the area of health and education are met . 
In Europe we are already assisting with all these objectives . 
We must continue to support and encourage the NEPAD vision , but action would speak louder than words . 
It will take very large sums of money to achieve these goals . 
One can only hope that the oil-rich states will contribute . 
With peace and stability , there are huge natural reserves that could also help them achieve their vision . 
With a peer review body , one hopes that the heads of African states will now take responsibility for their own destiny and that the problems of instability and poverty will be eradicated , with human rights being a top priority , especially for women and children . 
Madam President , the list of objectives for NEPAD is very long : it includes many different concepts such as conflict prevention , democracy and regional economic integration . 
The report by my friend and colleague , Mr Bébéar , is an excellent one . 
However , I should like to highlight that if , as he says , all these objectives were to be fulfilled , it would cost EUR 64 billion per annum . 
I do not believe that kind of money will be forthcoming . 
As the last speaker said , whilst there is corruption , mismanagement , fraud and bad governance , we have to tackle the problem of poverty in Africa . 
If NEPAD is a solution put forward by African governments , then there may be a chance . 
We have examples of bad management and fraud : we have only to look to the news a week ago when Parmalat lost EUR 10 billion in Italy -- a sophisticated , modern , western country ! 
So it is not surprising that there will be difficulties in Africa . 
I do not condone them ; I have always objected to and stamped on corruption wherever it is , especially in Africa . 
We need to encourage NEPAD , especially the conception , growth and sustenance of small - and medium-sized enterprises in Africa , owned and run by Africans using the natural resources of their countries and employing their own people , with the appropriate training and help that we can give them . 
That is the engine for NEPAD -- the economic engine that can bring about development . 
First , it must be formed in their countries , support the regional economy and then go beyond to EU and world markets . 
That is what NEPAD was conceived to be . 
The roof may be the African Union , the walls may be the pan-African Parliament , but the foundation of economic growth and the eradication of poverty in Africa has to be something like NEPAD . 
We ought to support it . 
This year , under this Irish presidency , that line will finally be erased . 
History , as Stephen Daedelus reminded us in James Joyce 's , is a nightmare from which we are trying to awake . 
The Irish presidency is right to focus on enlargement . 
It is an historic moment : the final act of the revolutions of 1989 . 
Integrating the new Member States into the Lisbon process and Schengen can not hide the fact that without the additional framework of a new constitutional settlement we are simply changing the oil in a Union which needs a new engine . 
Liberals in this House welcome the Taoiseach 's strong commitment to advancing the work of the IGC . 
December 's tempers have cooled . 
Europe 's destiny is in an altogether safer pair of hands . 
This time , Europe 's leaders must choose to succeed . 
My Group also welcomes the presidency 's intention to sustain the momentum of enlargement by concluding accession talks with Romania and Bulgaria and by responding to the request from Croatia . 
We , too , see this as the moment to achieve an historic settlement with Cyprus . 
The presidency also rightly focuses , too , on the Lisbon Agenda in what can only be called its hour of need . 
Most of the structural problems identified at Lisbon remain obstacles to wealth creation . 
The political will needed to undertake reform and give the eurozone credibility has not yet clearly been summoned . 
The Celtic tiger has long stood for the benefits of competitiveness and economic discipline . 
Now it is time for you to roar in the Council . 
But your modesty about what you can achieve must not obscure the need to resurrect the Growth and Stability Pact in some form under this presidency . 
The presidency 's assessment of our agenda abroad is also sound . 
We welcome the focus on African issues , on the holocaust of AIDS and poverty and hunger . 
We accept the need to work constructively with Russia , although we expect hard words on Chechnya and on Russia 's vanishing political pluralism . 
The EU must act together to demand conscionable treatment for all detainees in Camp Delta , including the Europeans who have now been held for two years without charge . 
I welcome , Mr President-in-Office , your commitment to review justice and home affairs in the Union . 
I hope you will not overlook the worrying Amnesty International report on human rights within some of our own member countries . 
My Group welcomes the presidency 's political commitment to take the Statute for Members forward . 
That commitment must now be carried through into reform by both Parliament and the Council so that the statute can enter into force after the elections . 
Deliver a deal on the Constitution and see in enlargement and you will have done Europe , and Ireland , proud . 
Carry that spirit through to the European elections in June , to a pan-European campaign with a continental consciousness rather than 25 national campaigns , and history will give you rich reward . 
. The Irish presidency , viewed from a Scottish point of view , demonstrates very clearly why Scotland would be better off independent . 
Ireland , a smaller country than Scotland , will be setting the agenda and leading the EU decision-making process , while Scotland does not even have a vote in the Council of Ministers . 
Ireland will lead the process of welcoming ten new member states -- many smaller than Scotland -- into the EU . 
These new members will have full rights of participation including votes on Fisheries Policy , while Scotland is a mere observer . 
I wish Ireland success in its presidency and look forward to the day when an independent Scotland takes its rightful place in the world -- better off independent ! 
The Irish presidency , not least because of its interest in the problems of Northern Ireland , but for other reasons as well , ought to give its mind and invite its colleagues to give their minds to the issue of the adequate and improved representation of countries of that kind . 
To make voting easier , however , these amendments had been arranged in blocks . 
Rule 130a states quite clearly that where there is a mass of amendments , the committee involved should try to sort them out before they are put to the vote in plenary . 
I would like the Bureau to have a proper look at Rule 130a so that Parliament 's services can be instructed to ensure that the committees observe that Rule . 
Mr President , with great respect to Mr Alyssandrakis , I have to differ with him . 
In common with most other colleagues who have spoken in the debate , I think this directive is going in the right direction and that we should all be pushing it as well as we can towards a conclusion . 
There are points of difference between us and these are important points . 
The grand idea of simplification , of bringing 15 different sectoral directives together into one overall scheme , is really an extraordinarily important one , not just for the reasons which Mr Harbour and others have mentioned , because of the completion of the single market , but also because of our responsibility as a Union to supply our citizens with reasonably clear and intelligible laws . 
If we can bring together the whole body of law concerning recognition of professions into a single coherent package , that is in itself a good thing in terms of the quality of the laws that we produce in this Union . 
It is important not to lose the particular protections that apply to different professions . 
All of us have to confess , taking the example that he gave , that we can have very good professional qualifications and professional disciplinary tribunals and still people such as Dr Shipman can get through the net . 
That just shows the point , and it is a point which Mr Zappalà was making , that the relationship of professionals to other members of the community is a curious one : someone who goes to a professional for advice gives herself or himself over to the power of that person because the professional necessarily knows more about the client or patient 's problem than the client or patient does or can . 
You would not have professions otherwise . 
That power relationship between professionals and citizens is one which requires regulation of the kind we have been talking about . 
It requires proper structures for example , the kind of structures that would emerge under some of the proposals from the committees and subcommittees that will deal with particular professions within the grander overall framework . 
Mr Alyssandrakis said that we are engaged in an effort of levelling down . 
As a lifelong provider of a kind of professional training , as a professor of law , I would be the last to disparage the importance of on-the-job , in-practice training as well as the importance of the kind of work that I have spent a lot of my time doing classroom teaching , tutorials and so on . 
What is important , and Mr Harbour mentioned this , is the maintenance of the five levels that we already have . 
I think we have an ` understood ' set of five levels and these should be retained . 
They should also be clarified . 
Having read Amendments Nos 192 to 196 in the name of Mrs Kauppi , Mr Harbour and others , I think that does a rather elegant job and , in any event , between now and the final vote , it is up to us to try and bring it together in such a way that we get a clear , intelligible and workable package at the end of the day . 
The engineering case has been mentioned . 
There is a point here which we all share . 
With great respect , it is too soon to go as far as Mr Zappalà is suggesting at this stage . 
It is important that we get the engineers to a better condition of mutual understanding in the different countries and that we achieve a better situation so that someone who is entitled to call themselves an engineer in Italy can feel that the same applies to a chartered engineer in the United Kingdom , and . 
We need to develop a common platform . 
Across the House there have been indications of movement towards agreement , and very important that is . 
It has been said that it is important in the single market to have free movement of labour to provide services . 
Since the beginning of my time in this Parliament , I have been involved in the case of the foreign language lecturers at Italian universities who had four judgments in their favour over 14 years and who are still not guaranteed or granted adequate rights of access to employment on the same terms as Italian nationals . 
That is just one example of why the work we are doing is of such vital importance if we are to have equal access to work and equal opportunity to provide services , with adequate protection for citizens and consumers across the Union . 
I strongly support the direction in which we are going and hope we manage to get home to port at the next plenary . 
I shall run through the main reasons for our view of this . 
Even if European investment managers manage them , most of them are still domiciled in offshore tax and regulatory havens . 
There has been a huge increase in interest in this type of investment in recent years , especially in the United States , where affluent and moderately affluent investors have discovered them . 
Many institutional investors now find it acceptable to invest in this way . 
This interest has now spread to Europe , especially as many of these funds , because of their willingness to sell short and leverage their results , have performed well in absolute terms over the last three years of negative stock market performance . 
The media has picked up on this , and such performances are featured in the personal finance sections of the newspapers . 
As a result there is some concern that less and less sophisticated investors will be tempted to entrust their savings to risky offshore hedge funds by one means or another . 
Even if most of these are perfectly respectable , well-administered and managed , there is only very basic regulatory control . 
EU regulators are concerned about the risks that may be run , while the investment industry is attracted by the commercial opportunities of tapping into this trend . 
We consider that it is an opportune time to introduce an appropriately light-handed regime in the European Union that will attract those funds to set up within European jurisdictions . 
Another matter of concern in the context of our attempts to produce a single European capital and investment market , is that some Member States impose fiscal or regulatory conditions which discriminate against investment into such funds in other Member States . 
We therefore propose that a distinct light-handed regime be established which can accommodate the characteristics of hedge funds -- and also , incidentally , other alternative investment vehicles which currently lack a suitable legal home at an EU level . 
We are looking for an arrangement which can provide these vehicles with an EU passport on the basis of mutual recognition . 
These funds invest in areas such as property , currencies and commodities . 
Clearly these investments are not appropriate for everyone , at least until their awareness of the risks they carry are fully understood and appreciated . 
For this reason , we stress the absolute necessity of education , of clear and straightforward information and of strict regulatory control of those who sell and distribute such products . 
There is no reason to deny European citizens access to these interesting investment opportunities , but we feel their interests will be better safeguarded if these are available within EU jurisdictions and are subject to appropriate regulation . 
While they are often vilified as high-risk speculative instruments , in fact , they can just as readily be applied -- and are -- in order to limit and reduce risk . 
We have identified two main issues -- Mr Bolkestein identified three -- which deserve attention . 
Systemic risks to the world 's financial system could possibly occur because we have little or no way of quantifying the full extent of exposure . 
This applies especially to specialised derivatives which are dealt over the counter and tend to be less liquid than more conventional derivatives . 
This also applies to credit derivatives , whose use has exploded , as banks offload -- for capital adequacy reasons -- their assets onto non-banks including , incidentally , hedge funds . 
We therefore call on the Commission , and the various international institutions , to develop appropriate means to measure , monitor and control such outstandings . 
. With regard to paragraph 27 , I agree with the Socialist and Liberal Groups that we should replace the words ` high capital ' with ` appropriate capital ' and take out the last few words : ` as has happened during the various crises , including in the case of the LTCM crisis . ' 
Mr President , it is customary for a speaker in my role to assure rapporteurs that we are right behind them , but in this case that would not quite be appropriate . 
In this case , the cart is firmly behind the horse , and she is leading us -- as well as all the Members of the Committee and Parliament -- in the charge . 
We are very grateful to Mrs Echerer for having given us that lead . 
As was said in the debate , there is a kind of tripod involved in relation to copyright and related rights . 
As Commissioner Bolkestein said , these are monopolies , but they are in principle benign monopolies because of the territoriality of copyright . 
It may be -- and perhaps Mr Harbour and Mr Karas will explain this to me one day -- that collecting societies can operate in competition with each other within a given domain or within a given country , but I find it difficult to see how that would work . 
If I am right , the point made by the Commissioner earlier assumes tremendous importance , namely that we need to look closely and critically at the governance of these societies , which are in a position to ` rip people off ' by charging unduly high fees for providing services to artists , authors and others . 
I would like to make a point in response to what Mr Harbour said that also provides me with an opportunity to declare a minor interest . 
I am an academic author and a very modest part of my annual income , as anybody who reads the Declaration of Members ' Interests will know , comes from rights management on behalf of myself as an academic author . 
Looking at it from the point of view of an author of that kind , the notion of the reader as customer is not as significant as Mr Harbour said . 
From that point of view , it is a matter of total indifference to an author what or how much they get paid . 
In that sense , this whole business of collective rights is for us more a means to an end than an end in itself . 
We should not think of it simply in terms of customers , but as an essential feature of the single market . 
We are delighted with the Commission 's proposal and , like everybody else , I am so pleased to have worked with Mrs Echerer on this . 
Mr President , I should like to thank all those involved in the conciliation . 
As Mr Zappalà pointed out , we were not always in agreement , but we did eventually reach a decision . 
These two directives are a step forward -- not a huge step , as Mrs Schörling said , but at least some progress has been made . 
Comparing what was there originally with what we have today shows considerable progress . 
We have talked tonight about the huge market involved in the whole area of public procurement . 
The Commissioner himself mentioned the huge figures involved . 
But too often when we talk about that market and about public procurement we talk purely about an economic market . 
These two directives change all that : social and environmental criteria have now been introduced . 
This means that the tendering authority does not have to accept the lowest tender . 
Tendering authorities can also take into account recent case-law and I am glad that the Commissioner highlighted the 4 December judgment . 
We also have the July court decision on the Altmark bus case and , as Mrs Thors pointed out , the Helsinki bus case . 
This Parliament has added a social dimension to economic legislation . 
We must never forget that while we strive for a competitive economy by 2010 , this has to be accompanied by social progress . 
That is why I will support tomorrow 's vote : even though I voted against this conciliation I will actually now vote in favour . 
Secretary-General , Liberal Democrats and Reformers in this House echo your words on immigration . 
We recognise the value that immigrants bring to Europe and we understand that closing Europe 's front door will only drive the desperate to seek access through the back . 
Many of us were migrants once upon a time and we know how ill it behoves our generation to shut the gates of mercy on mankind . 
Your words today remind us of the power of the United Nations to transcend the parochial in us all . 
The United Nations has a precious power to speak for us all . 
That is why my Group wishes to see the return of the United Nations to Iraq as soon as the security situation allows . 
Credible and legitimate democratic government in Iraq is not possible without the presence of the United Nations . 
We want a political settlement in Iraq that guarantees the highest standards of civil and political rights for all Iraqis . 
It is a sorry testament to a stubborn world that the UN still seems such an unlikely experiment in international governance . 
Winston Churchill once said that the UN is designed not to take us to heaven , but to save us from hell . 
In order to do that better the UN must reform . 
As its largest contributors , the EU and its Member States have not only the weight to insist on reform but the responsibility to do so . 
A mature Europe would find the political will to put behind it an institutional settlement at the UN that leaves power where it lay in 1945 . 
Finally , Secretary-General , on behalf of the Liberal Group allow me to pay tribute to the members of your organisation who will not see you take this prize in their name today . 
Your staff who lost their lives with Sergio Vieira de Mello -- including Fiona Watson who was known to me -- died defending a vision of national renewal in Iraq that is now our duty . 
Mr President , last week the Commission ruled against the level of assistance being given by the Charleroi airport authorities to a certain airline . 
Not only do I sympathise with the public authorities responsible for Charleroi , I admire them for trying to take action to stimulate much-needed economic growth and jobs , in the light of declining traditional industries . 
The benefits of low-cost air travel have been felt over a much wider area than just around Charleroi . 
For example , the route from Glasgow-Prestwick to Charleroi is the only air link from the west of Scotland , a very populous area , to the capital of Europe area . 
While I recognise that the Commission sees fit to implement state aid regulations in certain ways , what about the consumers ? 
I hope that the Commission will not be over-enthusiastic and end up disadvantaging consumers , including many groups who wish -- and need -- to visit our headquarters and the other European institutions to learn more about how Europe actually works . 
Mr President , the creation of a European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control has never been so important . 
The recent SARS outbreak , the current threat of a biological terrorist attack and even the current Asian bird flu crisis illustrate the threat from disease in the global village that we live in today . 
The threat to Europe 's health from the rapid spread of disease is real and present . 
Every year 1.4 billion passengers fly on an international trip . 
Every one of them could pose a threat to global health security . 
If they were found to be carrying a new strain of influenza or SARS they could within a few hours unwittingly put the lives of millions at risk . 
Global warming threatens even Britain with diseases such as malaria , while diseases such as TB are already returning . 
The correct response is not to turn our backs on the benefits of globalisation -- we should not give up the opportunities presented by increases in trade and travel because of biological threats any more than for reasons of terrorism -- but we need coordinated action . 
In today 's world no one country can afford to go it alone . 
That is why Labour MEPs so firmly back these proposals for a European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control . 
When it comes to tackling disease , Europe works . 
The European Commission was able to ban chicken imports from countries affected by the new strain of bird flu with immediate effect . 
Without the EU , it would have required an enormous effort to coordinate the actions of all 15 -- and soon 25 -- Member States . 
We need to strengthen that coordination and not weaken it through isolation . 
So I am pleased that Tory MEPs will also back this plan today . 
However , I wonder how they can square that with their own hostility to Europe and their policy of attacking the EU at every turn . 
The centre will contribute to the improvement and strengthening of the prevention and monitoring of human diseases in the EU . 
Its technical work and research capabilities will be an asset , as will the work with the WHO . 
I agree that accessibility to information for the public is vital , and that is why the centre should have its own website to communicate its work and to publish its opinions . 
This is one of the EU 's success stories , and we should be celebrating its creation . 
Mr President , with regard to the Kindermann report , many of my constituents are concerned about the unnecessary killing of dolphins and porpoises in Europe 's seas . 
It is time for us to act swiftly . 
That is why the Kindermann report is so important . 
I am certain that these measures will make a real difference : a general restriction on the length of driftnets in the Baltic Sea from 1 July 2004 , a further reduction in driftnet fishing by 1 January 2007 ; the compulsory use of acoustic deterrent devices and the introduction of a comprehensive system for monitoring the levels of dolphins and porpoises . 
These policies show why it is important to have a common fisheries policy and if these measures become part of that policy , we will then have the full force of the law across the 25 Member States . 
That shows just how important the EU and its enlargement into Eastern Europe are for all of us concerned about the environment . 
. Successful -- that is , profitable -- agriculture is an essential part of the rural economy and a major influence on the viability of basic rural services , from schools to post offices . 
Many agri-businesses in Scotland are facing major pressure on net incomes . 
In addition to the farm-gate price pressures which all farmers face , Scots producers , especially those in Highland and Island areas , have to cope with high costs of transportation and other challenges such as climatic conditions . 
Scots food producers must be encouraged by the new CAP to capitalise on their already good reputation for natural production methods and resulting production of good quality and healthy foodstuffs , which consumers will want to choose . 
Mr President , for a minute I wondered whether Mr van Dam had come to the wrong debate , but I am glad that he turned his attention to Northern hake . 
Mr Souchet is one of the most hard-working members of the Committee on Fisheries and his expertise in this area has earned him the accolade of being appointed rapporteur on the recovery of southern hake , a report which is currently in the pipeline . 
Once again , this divergence of opinion has demonstrated the need for fishermen and scientists to work together in the preparation of management strategies . 
It is also clear that the Commission must be prepared to listen to the advice of fishermen as well as to the dire warnings of scientists . 
In this respect , I am delighted that plans for the creation of Regional Advisory Councils , which Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna mentioned , will bring together fishermen and scientists . 
These plans are well under way and constitute an essential part of the CFP reform package . 
Had an RAC been in place in this instance , I do not think we would have had the original recommendations for drastic cuts in hake TACs combined with severe effort limitation targets which the Commission proposed and which have shocked the members of the Committee on Fisheries . 
Cuts as proposed would have devastated the sector and caused widespread socio-economic hardship . 
I am glad that the Commission has revised these proposals in the wake of strong representations from the sector . 
However , we also have a duty to sustain the livelihood of fishermen and to protect fishing communities . 
Mr President , President of the Commission , it seems that some of our Member States have been seized by a seven-year itch : it is the irresistible urge to scratch around for the best financial deal for themselves . 
But in their rush to advance their own interests , the Member States are failing to ask what might constitute the best deal for Europe . 
Liberal Democrats and Reformers believe that governments should first , as the admirable Mr Colom i Naval has suggested , take a long , hard look at what they have asked the European Union to do , and then give the institutions the resources they need to do the job . 
Governments should also ruthlessly tackle waste and fraud , most of which occur at national level , and target spending on our priorities to ensure maximum value for money for taxpayers . 
Britain , France , Germany and three other states have formed an unholy alliance , united only by their zeal to keep down their budget contributions . 
Even putting aside the wider benefits that the European Union buys , the EU needs a budget consistent with its responsibilities . 
This year we will integrate ten new Member States . 
Europe is charged with important new responsibilities abroad , and with the task of keeping us safe from crime and terrorism at home . 
Reviving growth requires progress on the ambitious reform agenda of Lisbon . 
Do the six states really expect the EU to do all of this on 1 % of Europe 's gross national income ? 
Indeed , I would wager that they can not even agree among themselves . 
My warning to Europe 's citizens would be : buyer beware ! 
These are the same governments who agreed in 2002 to a 1 % annual increase in spending on the common agricultural policy . 
If Member States demonstrated a real willingness to reform the CAP further , it would be easier to take seriously their calls for parsimony . 
As it is , we are running this Union on just over 1 % of the gross national income of the Member States , when the budget of the Federal Government in the United States is 20 % of GNI . 
We must continue to strive for savings where possible , but also equip the Union to meet the objectives we have set ourselves . 
Madam President , the situation in Afghanistan is of great interest to this House . 
For example , as many have said this morning , the situation of women must be highlighted . 
These trends are strongest outside Kabul , in the south and east of the country , where the situation of women is not so well known but is much worse than in the political centre . 
The Constitution , drawn up in January , specifically recognises the equality between men and women . 
25 % of the seats in the House of the People are reserved for women , yet it remains uncertain that this provision , along with others establishing rights for women , will help to implement women 's rights properly or help women get elected in the coming election . 
Many Members have talked about the issue of drugs . 
We live in a world where a poppy grown in Afghanistan can end up being illegally sold as heroin in Scotland . 
I am pleased that the UK Government plans to deploy an enhanced drugs team to Kabul and Kandahar by the end of the year and has made GBP 70 million available , over three years , for law enforcement , capacity-building , alternative livelihoods for those who are involved in poppy cultivation , and demand-reduction initiatives . 
We must ensure that capacity for effective public administration continues to improve at central and provincial levels . 
Mr President , political murder is a heinous crime in darkness : it is even more chilling in daylight . 
Mr Chea Vichea , trade unionist and member of the Cambodian opposition , was shot and killed on January 22 , beside the road in Phnom Penh , in the middle of the day . 
So brazen was his killer , that passers-by mistook the bullets for firecrackers . 
Mr Vichea is the fifth member of the opposition Alliance of Democrats to have been murdered in 2004 , and the latest victim of a year of violence . 
His funeral brought into the streets a crowd estimated at 30 000 strong . 
Mr Vichea was a founding member of the Sam Rainsy Party . 
He was a committed advocate of the rights of Cambodia 's 200 000 garment workers . 
His killing , along with that of activists from the Funcinpec party , adds to a temper of political intimidation in Cambodia that is worsened by the failure of the caretaker government to respond to these murders . 
Whether the Cambodian People 's Party is responsible for these killings or not , its persistent failure to apprehend and punish the killers leaves it accountable for the rising tide of fear in Cambodian politics . 
Hun Sen 's government continues to rule Cambodia without full legal and constitutional authority . 
The European Parliament must condemn not only this killing , but also the climate of intimidation and impunity that Cambodian authorities allow to persist . 
In conclusion , we call on the Council to issue strong words of condemnation . 
Mr President , my Group has no problem with the second of those amendments , but we feel that the first weakens the text and therefore we object to it . 
Mr President , at Dundrennan , in my constituency in the south-west of Scotland , there is a firing range where depleted uranium shells are used for practice . 
Madam President , I wish to thank Mr Dimitrakopoulos for his work on this report and for the scheme he has brought forward . 
However , my Group and I will be voting against the report if Amendments Nos 6 and 7 are not adopted . 
We think they are important . 
The quality of a democracy is measured by its respect for its minorities . 
It is very important to note that the d'Hondt proportionality , which governs the composition of our Bureau , does not , and can not , guarantee that all political positions represented in Europe -- far less represented in this House -- will take part in the decision-making . 
This is all the more objectionable when the rule is that parties seeking funding need only be heard on some issues rather than on all issues that come before the Bureau . 
These are points I take very seriously . 
It is also important that in discussing the funding of political parties it is necessary that all voices should take part , even though we accept that the d'Hondt proportionality means that only some of the parties should be participants as voters on the Bureau . 
I hope these amendments will be accepted , because if they are not we will certainly vote against the report . 
As I have said , politics is also about the representation of minorities . 
However , voluntary associations are not the same as institutions , even though the maintenance of satisfactory democratic politics requires , in contemporary circumstances , that there be some public support for political parties . 
I speak in this House for the European Free Alliance , for the parties representing minority nations within Member States -- regions , as they are sometimes called : not very accurately , in my judgment . 
The increase in size of the Union , with the welcome arrival of many small states , makes it ever harder for a party like the European Free Alliance , which has been in existence for many years , to satisfy threshold requirements of the kind that are now being set . 
Every time we come to this House it appears that the hurdles are set yet higher in favour of the large political groupings , while neglecting the fair and legitimate interests of minorities . 
Therefore I call upon the House to accept this report only if at least Amendments Nos 6 and 7 are adopted . 
Madam President , I am sure that Mr Corbett did not intend to misrepresent my position , but he accidentally did . 
I strongly agree that the Bureau should decide it ; but when the Bureau sits to decide these matters , it should have among it representatives of other parties . 
That is what I said and I think that is correct . 
Mr President , representing , as I do , a constituency which is associated with such products as Scotch whisky , Highland shortbread and Borders knitwear , I am fully aware of and sensitive to the points many have made about the evils of counterfeiting and piracy , which extend much more widely than just to products of the kind I have mentioned . 
I , therefore , strongly support the idea of introducing a directive of this kind . 
However , I do not agree entirely with Mr Byrne when he claims that a balance has been struck . 
That is not what we hear from the Generic Medicines Association , which is very fearful that extension of this set of remedies to patent law will damage its interests and thus the interests of the health services of Europe and beyond . 
A balance has not been struck . 
Patents must be excluded , and the point about the commercial scale must be extended to the whole of the directive , not just to some parts of it . 
Finally , I say with great personal sympathy for Mrs Fourtou that this case shows up a gap in our rules about declaration of interests . 
The issue of familial interests needs to be included . 
I say that without any personal discourtesy . 
However , as my report suggests , there is a real problem about the non-compliance with Community law among big states . 
The worst example -- which is cited in the explanatory statement -- concerns the treatment by the Italian State of a group of university lecturers , who , after 14 years , have still not had their rights enforced , despite two resolutions by this House . 
I have just received information that , despite the European Commission 's decision to ask the European Court of Justice to impose fines of EUR 309 750 a day , the Italian Parliament has just passed legislation which enhances the illegal discrimination against these citizens . 
Mr President , I wish to raise a point of order touched on in the debate this morning . 
Mrs Fourtou has behaved with extreme honour and goodwill throughout , but has been put in the invidious position of bringing forward a report and then being accused of not having declared an interest . 
We must have clarity as to whether and when familial interests have to be declared . 
The report starkly highlights some of the statistics which clearly demonstrate that more action is required . 
Globally , one woman dies each minute from pregnancy-related causes , about 200 000 maternal deaths per year result from the lack or the failure of contraceptive services , at least 75 million of the 175 million pregnancies each year are unwanted , and rape and other forms of sexual violence are increasing , including in Europe . 
These , and a whole host of other facts contained in the report , clearly point to a need for increased action and assistance to be given by developed countries to combating poverty and encouraging economic growth , with a corresponding increase in educational opportunities , particularly lacking in some countries , for women and girls . 
On the basis of the latest figures , the indicators for the Cairo conference objectives are still showing shocking inequalities between the world 's wealthy and poor countries and regions . 
The EU governments can and should take a lead in improving the situation . 
I warmly thank Commissioner Fischler for that very direct answer . 
It is extremely important that this allegation of abuse of dominant position should be investigated . 
One particular risk that it gives rise to is that a particular asset currently in the hands of EU-owned salmon breeders is the genetic data and genotyped brood stock , which is of fundamental importance , as I am sure the Commissioner well realises . 
In conducting his further investigation , with which I will be very happy to cooperate as much as I can , will he take a particularly close and concerned look at that aspect of the situation ? 
Commissioner , I join Mr MacCormick in thanking you for your direct answer . 
He and I have been passing information week after week to you and your colleagues but have found there to be a rather roundabout relationship between you for aquaculture , Mr Monti for competition policy and Mr Lamy for trade , which makes life very difficult . 
Can I ask the three of you to join forces and work in a joined-up way , in order to prosecute this particular problem with the utmost urgency ? 
The life is being squeezed out of our constituents in Scotland . 
Commissioner , you will forgive me for finding the situation unsatisfactory , as I am sure you do too . 
We were assured , at the time the European arrest warrant was introduced , that effective common minimum standards would follow hot on its heels . 
Can you concede , Commissioner , as one who has been a doughty fighter in this regard that , if the new Constitution were to come into force , the Member States would in future find themselves subject to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union when executing European arrest warrants , and that this would be binding law because in implementing European arrest warrants they would be implementing European law ? 
Mr President , this Spring Council will be dominated by the economic reform agenda and rightly so . 
Yet there is something a little strange in talking about the future of Europe when the draft constitution fashioned to facilitate that future languishes in Council . 
Liberal Democrats and Reformers in this House welcome the intensive consultations undertaken by the presidency . 
Signs from most national capitals suggest that it should not be beyond the wit of our Member States to deliver a deal . 
President-in-Office , we urge you not to give up on your efforts to break the deadlock at the IGC and secure a constitution for Europe before the elections to this House in June . 
I should also like to thank you , President-in-Office , for going off-script in your remarks . 
Your line that it is ` possible to find a consensus in the context of a process leading to a conclusion ' is one of Sir Humphrey 's finest . 
I am pleased to see that he is alive and well in Justus Lipsius . 
However , your line that the key to it all is political will is exactly right . 
The potential problems of an EU of 25 are painfully clear . 
Without institutional reform this Union can not function effectively . 
It is time to stop pretending that life will somehow go on if the IGC fails . 
Forget the infamous Polish slogan ` Nice or death ' . 
For an enlarged Europe , Nice death . 
I share the Commission 's concern about tinkering with the draft constitution . 
Some of Europe 's leaders are playing poker with the Union 's future in the last chance saloon . 
It is time to show our cards : governments , people , parliamentarians alike . 
Do we demand a stronger , more credible Europe at home and abroad ? 
Do we insist on integration where it is needed ? 
Do we want the President of the Commission to be Europe 's best and brightest , able to command support across party lines ? 
Liberal Democrats and Reformers are in no doubt about our answers to these questions : yes , yes and yes ! 
I regret that the European left , which gave us the inspirational leadership of Jacques Delors , now seems to lack conviction about the future of our continent . 
Mr Poettering 's platoon seems more concerned about making the next President of the Commission their political plaything than about the content of his or her programme . 
It is alright , Mr Poettering , for Wilfred Martens to claim that the PPE-DE is ` uncompromisingly pro-European ' : you look more like pro-European to me ! 
Do you speak in the name of all of your Group , or just one part of it ? 
The European Council also has to debate Europe 's external relations . 
It should be recognised that without exception , Europe speaks more strongly in the world when it speaks with a single voice . 
That is why , President-in-Office , I make this appeal to you : last night , five of the nine British detainees at Guantanamo Bay were repatriated to the United Kingdom . 
Even as a British citizen , I see this less as a gain for Britain than as a loss for Europe . 
Because if the Council had pushed Europe 's case over bilateral bargains , we might have had a more united and principled stand . 
We should have insisted on securing the release of all Europe 's detainees from Guantanamo Bay . 
I challenge your presidency to stand up for our Union 's values by speaking for Europe as a whole at the EU-US summit on the issue of the remaining Guantanamo Bay detainees . 
We have to pull together now as a continent or we will fall apart . 
The pro-European forces in government and this House have to make their case with conviction , because we need a new constitution , a new credibility and a new self-confidence , and we need them now . 
I would like to focus my remarks on tobacco . 
I believe the Commission 's reform package is fair . 
EU citizens find it deeply offensive that nearly EUR 1000 million a year go to funding a crop that nobody would buy if it were not subsidised ; a crop that does nothing but harm its consumers . 
Today 's approval of the Daul report does nothing for European citizens ' health . 
It is a disappointing day for this Parliament and I am glad that 215 Members voted against this report and against tobacco subsidies . 
It is interesting to note that the UK Unionist Parties are so enthusiastic about EU enlargement and keen to welcome on board these new Member States , many of whom are small , like Scotland , and in many cases have recently regained their independence . 
A contradictory approach is taken by these Unionist Parties at home , where Scotland is deemed , by them , to be too small , too poor and too weak to be able to exercise the normal rights and powers of independence . 
It is clear that Ireland , for example , has prospered as an independent EU Member State and it is fitting that in its role as EU presidency , Ireland will preside over this , the largest ever single enlargement of the EU . 
I have no doubt that Scotland too would be better off independent rather than being misrepresented and betrayed on a regular basis by UK ministers in the Council . 
I hope that tomorrow we will be able to rectify the bad bits and remove them . 
First , I want to concentrate on one or two of the good bits . 
It supports the work of the Competitiveness Council . 
These are the good bits in this report . 
That is where this report goes wrong . 
Reading the Commission 's document , step-by-step , there is a clear agenda . 
The Commission argues that many of the Member State economies are in a downturn at the moment and that in order to give them a boost and to help those flagging economies we must look at more structural reform . 
What does it mean by structural reform ? 
Taking that argument even further , in Europe our health and education sectors are bigger than the water sector is today . 
If you go down the road of liberalising our water sector then you go down the road of liberalising our health and education sectors . 
That is not what I am about . 
I have looked at this report . 
This is not what Europe is about . 
We have had liberalisation of certain industries in Europe . 
I only need to look at British Rail to see what a disaster that has been . 
Before we go down the road of further liberalisation of any services we have to take stock of what has happened so far . 
However , when we look at the Lisbon agenda , what comes up time and time again is the economic criteria . 
It is high time that we moved away from that . 
I believe that the internal market is about workers ; it is about workers ' rights ; it is about health and safety ; it is about living conditions ; it is about elderly people ; it is about young people ; it is about disabled people ; it is about employment and unemployment ; it is about the training of young , old and unemployed people . 
I hope that we will remove that tomorrow . 
Our citizens do not want a liberalised water sector . 
Europe has a soul . 
If we sell out our social agenda , which is part of the internal market agenda , part of the Lisbon agenda , then we are lost forever . 
We can not let down our citizens . 
Tomorrow we must support all the amendments that reject further liberalisation . 
Mr President , in supporting Mr Miller 's general line about this report and in particular his points about water , I want to draw special attention to Amendment No 13 . 
It would be a very illiberal doctrine to say that liberalisation should be pursued in an inflexible way , insensitive to local realities . 
Unfortunately , however , the Commission has said that this can not possibly apply to ferries . 
Buses are not ferries -- indeed they are not -- but transport is transport , by sea and by land . 
Mr Miller mentioned the problem of Railtrack in the United Kingdom . 
Split the ownership of the rails from the ownership of the trains and you get a crazy situation . 
In Scotland it seems that we are about to split the ownership of the ships from the ownership of the companies that sail them . 
Railtrack by sea ! 
This is liberalisation pursued in an extreme and inflexible way . 
Mr Bolkestein is a frequent and always welcome visitor to Scotland . 
I hope that on his next visit to the Hebrides he does not have to travel under an assumed name to hide his responsibility for the fiasco which is about to be wished upon us ! 
It is the only island of the Hebrides now joined to the mainland by a bridge and does not depend upon the services of ferries subject to public service obligations . 
According to the 2001 census , 18.61 % of the population in Scotland are over pension age and , even more interesting , 19.54 % -- almost 20 % -- of carers are over pension age . 
The ageing population presents us with huge challenges , not just in Scotland but across the whole EU . 
That is why sharing best practice between countries throughout the EU is so vital . 
We need to look at simple solutions focused on individual persons . 
Although more doctors are being trained in geriatric care , which is a growing area of interest , there still needs to be more investment in this expanding specialism . 
For the older person , there are other issues to consider . 
It is a popular misbelief that a large percentage of older adults live in some form of care home . 
In fact , a large proportion of older adults live independently , with family or social support . 
My great aunt Agnes , at 91 years of age , is one of them . 
Sometimes when an older patient is ill and recovering in hospital what is important to them is to be able to return home and cope at home . 
For some older patients this can be more important than the treatment of their medical condition itself . 
With people living longer , and an increasing proportion of the population over 65 , it is also interesting that a lot of medical trials do not include elderly patients , although this matter is beginning to be addressed . 
We have a responsibility to the older population within the EU . 
After all , one day we too will be part of the older population , since none of us is getting any younger . 
. Mr President , I am not in the business of helping out the Liberals . 
Paragraph 33 is poor . 
Even if this were added to it , it would not sufficiently improve the paragraph to make it a good one . 
Consequently , I would rather vote against paragraph 33 and vote on the amendment . 
Mr President , I would like to concentrate on the threat posed by the Commission 's proposals in terms of the privatisation of the independent meat inspectorate in the United Kingdom . 
This issue has been raised , not only by the Consumers ' Association , but also by the UK trade union Unison , which represents meat inspectors . 
The feeling is that the Commission 's proposal would allow privatisation through the back door by placing the responsibility for hygiene in abattoirs on the meat plants themselves . 
Therefore the independence of meat inspectors would be compromised , as those paying their wages would then be the companies they are in charge of inspecting . 
Consumer protection should be our Number One priority and no consumer should be put at risk of consuming unsafe meat . 
Just last week we saw the issue of chicken on sale which , according to the Consumers ' Association , had incorrect sell-by dates on the packets . 
On top of this we have the backdrop of BSE , the tragedy of foot-and-mouth , and E.coli scares . 
In fact , the situation that happened many years ago to which Mr Bowe referred involved the butchers my family used in Wishaw in Scotland . 
There has never been such a need to reassure consumers that the meat they are consuming is safe to eat . 
It is in the interest of the consumer , but it should also be in the interest of the industry . 
When visiting a meat plant some months ago I was reassured that the quality of meat was of the highest standard and that the meat inspectors played an important role in securing quality and safety . 
We should not put at risk the independence of the meat inspectorate . 
There are 1200 independent meat inspectors in the United Kingdom and I hope they will be able to continue the work that reassures us as consumers that the meat we eat is safe . 
I find it unbelievable that the present independent meat inspection system in the UK could be bettered by adopting the same style of controls currently operating in the poultry sector . 
To anyone who has visited a modern poultry processor , it will be obvious that the process is entirely different from that which applies in an abattoir . 
Of course I accept that controls are put in place from farm to plate , but surely it makes sense to retain those parts of the chain which are successful , and to add in controls in areas where improvement is seen to be required . 
For that reason I will be opposing the parts of this package which would dismantle or privatise the independent meat inspection service . 
I would make the same request in relation to the Lehne report . 
To explain , as Members of the House will know , Article 9 of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of Parliament confers an immunity on Members of Parliament for expressions of opinion and votes cast in the exercise of their office . 
However , in Article 4 , we omitted to refer the matter to the Commission in the properly formal way . 
Members will also wish to know that this concerns a case in which two Members of this House have been subjected to an injunction at the instance of to prevent them holding press conferences in this House criticising the conduct of in relation to the Members ' Statute . 
I welcome this proposed strategy looking at the connection and links between environment and health and I welcome the Commission 's proposal . 
I would like to focus on the issue of indoor pollution and in particular passive smoking -- I know Mr Rod has just touched upon that . 
It is apt that we discuss this report in the week that the Irish Government introduced a ban on smoking in public places , especially since the Irish Government currently holds the presidency of the EU . 
The Irish Government should be congratulated on its initiative to protect the health of all its citizens , including those who work in smoky pubs , clubs or restaurants . 
Breathing other people 's smoke is dangerous for your health . 
Tobacco smoke contains over 4000 different chemicals . 
In the USA the Environmental Protection Agency has classified environmental tobacco smoke as a class A carcinogen along with asbestos , arsenic , benzene and radon gas . 
Passive smoking is a risk factor in childbirth and infancy , connected to low birth weight and cot death ; in children it is a risk factor in asthma , bronchitis and pneumonia ; in adults it is a risk factor in heart disease , stroke , lung cancer and nasal cancer . 
Estimates suggest that in the UK alone 8000 deaths through heart disease are caused by passive smoking each year . 
This is a serious issue and there is no way to escape the fact that passive smoking is bad for your health . 
I hope more Member States will copy Ireland 's excellent example . 
I thank the rapporteur and the Commissioner for their hard work . 
Mr President , it has been a while since everybody left a European Council meeting smiling . 
I congratulate the presidency on a focused summit that delivered in many respects . 
This summit suggested that there is another Europe : one that can actually get things done . 
European Liberal Democrats and Reformers welcome the new will to reach agreement on a European Constitution by the June European Council . 
President-in-Office , a combination of events and canny diplomacy have paved the way for agreement . 
In the words of an Irish blessing , ` may the road rise up to meet you ' . 
This House badly wants a deal , but our terms have not changed and will not change . 
We expect a treaty based closely on the Convention text . 
We expect the Council to respect the budgetary powers of Parliament and extend democracy in our Union through qualified majority voting and greater codecision . 
We expect the Council to make the difficult compromises needed in good faith and then go back to sell those compromises at home . 
This show will not be over in June . 
Ratification is a mountain still to climb . 
This summit also acted decisively to fix the way we protect ourselves against terrorism in Europe . 
My Group welcomes the appointment of Gijs de Vries as anti-terrorism coordinator and demands that he be given a clear mandate to ensure he can get the job done . 
The next step is to reinforce the resources at Europol and set it to work : no new bureaucracy , no duplication , no more foot-dragging from European intelligence agencies who do not like to play with others . 
If this is not our frontline defence against terror then it is just a cheap gamble with the safety of Europeans . 
Liberal Democrats and Reformers also back a strong commitment to ratifying existing instruments such as the European Arrest Warrant . 
We have proposed an implementation league table that will name and shame states which take lightly the safety of their citizens . 
The weekend 's decisive tone has to translate into action . 
Let us be clear about that new decisive tone . 
Let us remember what Europeans -- what Madrileños -- had to endure . 
This House has been urging a more concerted policy on terrorism since before 11 September 2001 . 
Let us recall that when the Commission asked for EUR 15 million for counter-terrorism intelligence last year , the Council offered EUR 1 million . 
Europeans deserve better . 
A counter-terrorism policy conceived in panic is far too likely to invade private lives and erode public freedoms . 
On biometrics , on passenger data transfers -- that is what we are in danger of getting . 
My Group wishes to remind the Council that it has once again ignored the explicit demand of this House that it discuss detention without trial at Guantanamo Bay and that it commit to raising that issue with the Americans at the EU-US summit . 
Any European government that reckons on the issue going away has not reckoned on the will of this House . 
My Group welcomes the commitment in Council to speeding up the pace of reform on the Lisbon Agenda . 
We remind the Council that 40 % of the single market directives have not been implemented in all Member States . 
We remind the Council that the Growth and Stability Pact must be revived this year so that Europeans can have confidence in the sound management of Europe 's economy . 
The tone of public debate in Germany and France suggests that European governments are not properly making the case for reform at home , whatever they may say in Brussels . 
Before this summit I called for a sense of urgency on three areas : terrorism , the IGC and economic reform . 
To paraphrase W. B. Yeats , of our quarrels with others we make rhetoric , of our quarrels among ourselves we make poverty . 
The summit showed a willingness to get back to the business of Europe . 
Let us hope the political will holds and the momentum lasts -- for all of our sakes . 
Madam President , although I support the first four amendments , I reject Amendment No 5 . 
I believe that amendment was originally lost in committee but has been re-tabled . 
Any measures which threaten this principle , or put it at risk , I can not support . 
The concept of relative stability is vital to the Scottish fleet , as it guarantees historical rights , and Amendment No 5 puts that at risk . 
Amendment No 5 also transfers competence to the Commission over quota swaps , which , I believe , is against the basic CFP regulation . 
Competence should rest with the Member State , allowing new entrants to existing fisheries , leading to pressures to reallocate currently guaranteed quota shares . 
It also ignores the basic differences between southern fisheries agreements , where fishing licences are at stake , and northern agreements where quotas are at stake . 
I find it interesting that some people want the Commission to have more responsibility over fisheries , yet when it comes to certain proposals over which the Commission has responsibility , they want to reject it outright . 
Amendment No 5 is dangerous to northern fishing interests , it goes against the CFP regulation and risks reducing the amount of Greenland quotas that can be used in exchange for quotas for Norway on which the United Kingdom industry relies heavily . 
I am sorry to disagree with the rapporteur on this occasion . 
Madam President , I note that Commissioner Fischler is unable to be with us here today . 
I hope that is because he is extremely busy trying to remedy the problems that have been inflicted upon Scotland by the December Fisheries Council in Brussels . 
On the subject of Greenland , I am sure that many Scots in fishing communities these days would look enviously towards Greenland because it is outwith the CFP . 
However , while in Scotland we are still stuck with the CFP , it is absolutely essential that the founding principle of relative stability is not violated in any way whatsoever . 
This report , and its proposal that quotas should be reallocated to different Member States , and reallocated by the Commission , is totally unacceptable . 
It is a very dangerous precedent that could , and would , be used to undermine relative stability . 
It is not helpful that in December 2002 the UK Government and the Scottish Labour and Liberal Government supported reform of the CFP giving equal access to waters and resources . 
If Commissioner Fischler had been here I would have asked him to comment on how relative stability can live with equal access to waters and resources . 
The two are not compatible , and I just hope that we can get out of the CFP before relative stability is reviewed or revoked . 
Madam President , I had better be careful what I say about Mrs Miguélez Ramos , in case she now becomes the Fisheries Minister in Madrid ; so I will be nice to her from now on . 
We in the Committee on Fisheries recently had presentations from an eminent scientist , Dr Chris Reid from the Sir Alistair Hardy Foundation at Plymouth University . 
He was explaining to the Committee on Fisheries that global warming , which has caused a rise in the temperature of the North Sea by a significant amount over the last 20 years , has driven the plankton on which the cod feed northwards . 
It is not surprising , then , that we are witnessing a collapse in cod stocks in the North Sea which has led to the crisis that the Scottish fleet in particular is now confronting , and to the cod recovery plan that the Commission has implemented . 
If such fishing opportunities exist , the people who most require to benefit from those opportunities are the beleaguered fleet operating at present in the North Sea . 
For that reason regrettably I have to say , adding my voice and echoing what my colleagues have said this afternoon , that I agree that we can not support Amendment No 5 . 
Not only does that undermine the principle of relative stability , as Mrs Stihler and Mr Hudghton have eloquently explained , but it would also transfer those potential fishing opportunities away from the North Sea fleet and give them to fishing fleets outwith the North Sea , which would not be acceptable to the fishermen in the UK . 
Mr President , I listened carefully to the Commissioner . 
I would appeal to the Commission in these circumstances to think again . 
We are going into the election period and the Commission would have an ideal opportunity to conduct further consultations with the sector throughout the Mediterranean basin , and come back in the new mandate with a reworked , revised proposal , which this House may then find acceptable . 
Mr President , on behalf of the ELDR Group I would like to congratulate the Commission , and Commissioner Bolkestein in particular , on his efforts to try to reach agreement with the United States on such a difficult matter . 
My Group regrets that he has not been more successful in persuading the United States to respect our concerns about data privacy . 
My Group can not agree on the choice of legal basis . 
While , as Mr Bolkestein says , the agreement does not formally amend our data protection directive , it clearly amends the law as it applies to European Community citizens by making us subject to US law in this area , and the absence of protection in US law is precisely our concern . 
There is a huge democratic deficit when the Commission comes forward with a proposal like this and does not give either the European Parliament or national parliaments the chance to say yes or no . 
Now , as Mr Bolkestein informs us , that the information being passed to the United States ' authorities may be passed on to third country authorities , we should be seriously concerned . 
We would prefer the Commission to do that , but if the Commission can not do it , perhaps at least at its meeting tomorrow the Commission could agree to take the initiative in referring the matter to the Court of Justice to decide whether there is adequacy . 
Mr President , I would like to start from a local perspective . 
Last Friday I visited Blantyre in my constituency to talk to an alliance of Credit Unions in that part of Scotland . 
As the Commissioner will know very well , Credit Unions in some parts of the Union provide cheap and affordable types of safe credit to consumers through voluntary organisations carrying out voluntary effort in a non-profit way . 
They were very concerned early on in the process that they may be caught in some of the technicality of this directive . 
I am extremely grateful to Mr Wuermeling for the way in which , in Amendments Nos 4 and 62 , he has sought to create an exemption for that kind of activity . 
It is really very important and my constituents were very grateful to learn just how much had been done in that respect . 
While there may be still issues among us about the exact balance between the consumer and the lender contained in the Wuermeling report , we are all agreed that it is vitally important to make safe the internal market so that there can be much wider trade , but not at the cost of unfairness to consumers . 
The same goes for Mrs Gebhardt 's proposal . 
It is a report that has been drawn up in accordance with the normal procedures of our House and , in recognition of the electoral sensitivities of some , the rapporteur has offered to delete Mr Berlusconi 's name from the report . 
Nonetheless , some colleagues are seeking to delay , to filibuster , to disrupt our procedures in order to evade the harsh searchlight of an unpalatable truth . 
My group calls on the PPE-DE Group to withdraw these wrecking amendments ; and if it will not , we are ready to vote on all 350 of them . 
We ask you to allow the House to decide whether to proceed and we welcome your assurance that we will have a chance to vote on this report . 
Mr President , on Saturday , Cyprus votes on the Annan Plan and its future . 
Cyprus stands at a historic juncture . 
European Liberal Democrats and Reformers in this House have consistently urged all parties to support the plan and we do so again now . 
The Annan Plan offers Cyprus a chance for reconciliation and renewal . 
It is a door to a better future on an island that has endured too much for too long . 
The plan makes important concessions to both sides . 
With goodwill on both sides it could be a first step away from years of partition . 
My Group thanks Commissioner Verheugen for the leadership he has shown in this matter . 
We regret that more EU leaders have not expressed the same commitment more volubly . 
The European Union will underwrite a huge amount of the reunification process and the Court of Justice will provide a legal framework for its resolution . 
This is the last , best hope for a unified Cyprus to join the European Union on 1 May . 
We salute the leaders on both sides in Cyprus who have supported the Annan process and have commended it to their fellow Cypriots . 
` No ' would have been the simple choice : the answer which rhymed easily with resentment and suited political expediency . 
` Yes ' took courage . 
There are many Cypriots , particularly on the Greek side , who ask what business it is of ours to be having this debate at all . 
In the face of all our concern and consternation they offer simply the shrug of self-determination . 
They can and will vote as they please and they have the right to vote ` no ' . 
But I believe it would be a sad and sectarian choice , the wrong choice for the wrong reasons . 
Moreover , if the purpose of self-determination is the freedom to go on nursing old resentments and the right to weigh the money in your pocket today against reconciliation tomorrow , the Cypriots who have turned their faces against this process are welcome to it . 
On our scarred continent with its crowded history there are some old scores where restitution and compensation can only ever be relative . 
Only the historically illiterate can believe that we can somehow fix what has happened in Cyprus , anymore than we can fix Kosovo and Serbia or Israel and Palestine . 
What Cyprus needs is a : some way of living that looks forward rather than backward . 
The European Union would have to face up to a new reality on the ground : the possibility for a peaceful transfer of land will be lost ; the Turkish army will continue to guard what will remain a militarised border ; UN peacekeepers will patrol within the European Union . 
The English writer Lawrence Durrell , who lived for many years on Cyprus , recorded a Greek Cypriot proverb that says there is no fire in old ashes . 
Liberal Democrats and Reformers in this House hope beyond hope that Sunday will not find Cypriots stirring the cold old ashes of a sad history . 
The Commission has not fulfilled that promise and , therefore , we have had to use a very blunt instrument to try to maintain democracy within this Union . 
Mr President , surely if the rapporteur is requesting a referral back to committee of her own report , and there is a dispute , then the House should vote on this ? 
Mr President , on behalf of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Group I congratulate the President of the Commission on assembling a talented team of new Commissioners from the ten new Member States , France and Spain . 
We welcome the political balance that is found among the ten , as well as the presence of three women . 
My Group will be giving its support to the enlarged Commission when we vote at noon today . 
The European Union needs a strong , legitimate and accountable Commission , capable of providing political vision and leadership . 
Once in every five years this Parliament is the Union 's personnel officer . 
We are there to take the proper measure of those appointed to the Commission or its presidency . 
To date our hearings of Commissioners have been handicapped by too much partisanship and too little sustained , in-depth questioning . 
So all of the Commissioners nominated in November can expect tough questioning from MEPs of the political centre , the kind of questioning that was too little in evidence at last month 's hearings . 
This Commission is the first for a new enlarged Europe and the imperative for Liberals in this House is to ensure that it is effective , committed and competent . 
It is also important that we restate and establish once and for all the long-standing principle of individual responsibility of Commissioners to Parliament for their policies and their departments . 
It is inevitable that the work of this Commission will bind that of the next , just as the work of this Parliament will not be undone on 14 June . 
Like any executive , the Commission aims to provide continuity in the management of Europe 's business . 
Much of this business has political import , yet there should be no suggestion that business can not be done simply because the Commission is approaching the end of its term . 
That argument not only impugns the professionalism of the Commission and its officials , but it parades a tenuous grasp of the European agenda . 
Do they not envisage that the settlement of the European Union 's budget for the next seven years or the question of Turkish membership might make some demands on the Commission 's attention between now and November ? 
To close down the Commission 's right of initiative at this point would not only be wildly impractical , it would be downright irresponsible . 
Let us read between the lines here . 
European Commissioners are bound to leave their politics at the water 's edge . 
This House should show a similar maturity . 
European Liberal Democrats and Reformers in this House have had their share of criticism of some of the Commission 's policies but we have always recognised its individual talents and its collective commitment . 
This week we need only think of the extraordinary work of Commissioner Verheugen in helping secure a successful European enlargement . 
The new Commission will begin its term with one thing in its favour . 
Many familiar faces are likely to be there again in November . 
This continuity can and should be an asset . 
Likewise the Commission must have the necessary latitude over the next five months to prepare the ground and to maintain the momentum necessary to make it a success . 
Indeed , to insist on anything else -- especially just to pay party political dues -- is risible . 
Mr President , you have given 15 years of tireless service to this House and on behalf of the ELDR Group I would like to pay tribute to the leadership and the vision that you have shown during your term of office . 
You have proven an outstanding President of our House , raising our profile , ensuring that our voice is heard in the Council and beyond . 
Through your eloquence and your judicious use of the well-crafted sound bite you have communicated the practical benefits of our work to our citizens . 
I am proud that the first Liberal President of this House in 22 years should be one of its most successful . 
I would like to highlight briefly two achievements . 
Your energetic campaigning for enlargement and the determination you have shown in reforming this House will go down to your great credit . 
As my predecessor as leader of the ELDR Group , you demonstrated our commitment to enlargement by involving MPs from the candidate countries in our work . 
You continued with your energetic campaign for a ` yes ' vote in the candidate countries and in bringing observer MEPs here to our Chamber in 2002 . 
You have brought this Parliament closer to reforms than ever before and I have no doubt that as a result of your work we will succeed in reforming this House . 
We are sure that you will still have much to contribute to Europe in whatever you do in the months and the years ahead . 
We say today ` au revoir ' with a vote of thanks and our best wishes for the future . 
-- Mr President , I should like to add my words to those of my colleagues Mr Poettering and Mr Schulz in thanking all the contestants in this competition for the Presidency of our House . 
The result that we have is an honourable one . 
I am proud that the political family I represent gave the European Parliament a first-class President in Pat Cox . 
I believe that he will be a hard act to follow and I wish you , Mr President , all the best in your term of office . 
I would , however , like to put on notice the Group of the European People 's Party and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament . 
I believe that the alliance they have formed is an unnatural one . 
Such an alliance , when it happens in national parliaments , happens only at times of war or crisis . 
If these parties try to use this alliance to carve up the way things are done in this House , my group will fight them every inch of the way . 
If they conspire to block the necessary reforms in this House , we will stand up for the interests of the citizen . 
I believe that the citizens of the European Union are fed up with opaque government and back-room deals and look forward to the day when we have a mature Parliament , building a political majority not a technical majority . 
Mr Poettering spoke of the need for stability . 
The trouble is that democracies are run by crisis management : serious problems are not tackled until they have to be . 
Our Union has problems and resolving those problems will require leadership . 
We will judge you , Mr President , on your capacity for showing leadership to this House in the period to come . 
. As a member of Scotland 's Party of Independence , the SNP , I congratulate the Irish Government for the exemplary manner in which it conducted its six-month presidency . 
Ireland , a member state smaller than Scotland , has provided inspiration to those of us who aspire to see Scotland resuming all of the normal powers of an independent nation , speaking for ourselves in the International Community , and cooperating with our neighbours on terms which suit Scotland 's priorities - not London 's . 
Ireland , with healthy economic growth , continues to demonstrate how to gain maximum benefit from EU membership , while Scotland lags behind in terms of job opportunities and is suffering a decline in population . 
I look forward to the day when Scots ministers will sit alongside Irish in the Council of Ministers , as equal partners with full rights to negotiate and vote , putting Scotland 's interests first and not , as at present , merely acting as bag-carriers for their Westminster bosses . 
Mr President , one quarter of the Netherlands is below sea-level so you have a long history of trying to keep dry ! 
I suspect that your presidency will be about digging channels and containing the tides - tides such as the challenge of funding the new enlarged European Union , the deepening importance of rebuilding our economic strength , the ebb and flow of the dangers of international terrorism . 
You need to inherit some of the momentum of your predecessor , without being caught in its shadow . 
The Irish presidency has passed one crucial legacy to yours : the European constitution . 
Liberals and Democrats in this House will lead the way in campaigning for the constitution and we expect every one of Europe 's governments to be in the vanguard . 
If we can not sell it , it was not worth a single glass of Justus Lipsius champagne . 
For the rest of the work that you have set , time is short . 
With the summer recess and a new Parliament and Commission rushing to find their feet , you must achieve in three-and-a-half months what many presidencies struggle to achieve in six . 
We look forward to working with the good team that you have in Mr Nicolaï and his colleagues . 
Liberals and Democrats in this House welcome your commitment to renewing the economic reform agenda . 
We agree that the need now is to focus more on better implementation and less on new regulation . 
The foundation of social cohesion in Europe is a strong and dynamic economy . 
With careful consideration for the needs of local and regional economies the single European market can be a tide that can lift all of our boats . 
An important part of this is the credibility of the euro and the eurozone . 
We joined your presidency in welcoming the principle at the heart of last week 's ruling by the European Court of Justice that a pact is a pact : that Member States can not and should not break with impunity the rules they set for themselves . 
We will be watching closely to see that a rethought Stability Pact can command the respect of big and small states alike . 
But we need qualified majority voting and codecision in asylum , immigration and judicial cooperation as provided for in Article 251 of the Treaty . 
My group also agrees that Member States have to work together better to tackle terrorism , but we remain suspicious of the Council 's intent to employ biometric identifiers widely . 
Too many of our questions about fallibility , cost-effectiveness and privacy have not been properly answered . 
You must not pre-empt the decisions of Parliament in these matters . 
Yours is also the presidency that will oversee the nomination of the new Commission . 
Last week my group asked the Commission President-designate to commit himself to striving for a better gender balance in the Commission . 
But in reality this is your job , Mr President-in-Office . 
Liberals and Democrats in this House want a Commission that is at least one-third women . 
We might remind you that if the gender balance of the Council reflected that of Europe itself , it would be thirteen to twelve . 
We need a debate on Turkey . 
Let us have that debate , openly and frankly . 
What we are committed to is hearing out the Commission when it makes its recommendation in November , and we expect the Council to do the same . 
Nor do we all agree on the correct level of funding for the European Union over the next seven years , but we do share a commitment to ensuring value for money and focusing on the Union 's key priorities . 
If this presidency can publish guidelines and principles for the negotiations in December we will have the basis for an intelligent debate on future financial perspectives . 
Liberals and Democrats share your realism , but we hope it comes with a ballast of ambition and vision . 
-- Mr President , last month in the city of Neka in Iran a 16 year-old girl accused of offences against chastity was publicly hanged from a crane . 
After sentencing her to death , the judge said that she had undressed in the court because she took her veil off . 
He insisted upon placing the rope around her neck himself . 
There are three more children aged 16 currently under sentence of death in Iran . 
The regime is waiting until they are 18 to carry out public executions . 
This is the utmost act of barbarism by a mullah regime that is taking the cultured and civilised people of Iran back to the stone ages . 
It has executed 120 000 people since it came to power . 
I hope that on behalf of all the Members of this House , Mr President , you will express our outrage to the Iranian ambassador to the EU . 
The execution of children , and indeed the death penalty , is something that we will not tolerate . 
Mr President , Liberals and Democrats in this House welcome your Presidency Programme and we offer you our support in your work . 
When you speak impartially for this House , when you are a credit to its standing and a defender of its prerogatives , you can count on our backing . 
The stature of this Parliament is growing , and the stature of its Presidency must grow with it . 
You have inherited a House larger by some eight dozen MEPs and richer by nine new official languages . 
It is a machine of four and a half thousand parts , speaking twenty languages , a million words a week . 
The parts must move in time , the machine must stay in motion . 
You must make sure that it does . 
Benjamin Franklin once said of the Vice-Presidency of the United States - before the days of Dick Cheney - that it was a position so lacking in influence and stature that its holder should be addressed as ` your superfluous excellency ' . 
The European Parliament can not afford a superfluous excellency , because you will be our voice ; you will speak for us in the Council ; you will be the will of this House : you will be our resolution . 
Every one of us carries the burden of building the legitimacy of this House and thus European democracy and the work that it does - but none more than you . 
In your opening remarks you spoke of two sources of legitimacy . 
This House indeed has a particular duty to stand up for the rights of European Union citizens . 
Sometimes that means defending their rights from encroachment by the Union 's Member States . 
I think , for example , of the nine million stateless Roma or the citizens of Cyprus and also of the people of Gibraltar , now represented in this House for the first time , thanks to a judgment in the European Court of Justice . 
I am proud to be one of Gibraltar 's representatives here , because only in Europe can Gibraltar look across the line at La Linea , or at the British battleship in the Bay of Algeciras and finally see no contradiction . 
This House is the manifestation of the belief that we are better than our histories and more than our nationalities and it must be manifest in its President . 
In two areas of your mandate you can expect aggressive backing from Liberals and Democrats . 
The first is in reform of this House . 
An enlarged Parliament means a reformed Parliament . 
We welcome your emphasis today on reform of the Members ' Statute . 
The package agreed at the end of the last session is not an end but a point of departure . 
We can not hide behind it . 
We must call the bluff of European governments and go straight back to work , because for our voters the price of legitimacy is open and ambitious reform , nothing less . 
The second area is the defence of the European Constitution . 
Here we expect you to lead a concerted campaign across the continent . 
So renew your frequent flyer package : Europe has never had a more important product to sell . 
Mr President , Liberals and Democrats in this House urge imagination and we expect ambition . 
Political institutions rise and fall by the respect that they command . 
For a quarter of a century this Chamber has gathered powers and asked European citizens for respect , for trust . 
We must wake and work and sleep as if that trust must be won anew every day . 
In wishing you well in your term of office , Mr President , I would say that we expect nothing less from you . 
Mr President , on behalf of my Group I would like to thank Commissioner Patten for his willingness over the past five years to engage in debate with this House wearing a tie with a very light tinge of blue . 
I am pleased that he is enjoying the political freedom which my party helped him to find and we wish him every success in his future endeavours . 
There are many in this Chamber and outwith who still focus on a reckoning for responsibility for the war in Iraq . 
Whatever form that reckoning might take , Liberals and Democrats insist that we must not allow it to come between Europe and its urgent responsibility to that battered country . 
When your friend 's house is burning down , you do not stop to argue over who dropped the match . 
With the oppressive brace of dictatorship ripped away , Iraq has burst like a broken dam . 
If we do not control the flood , it threatens to sweep across the region , engulfing Iran , Syria , Saudi Arabia and Turkey . 
It will drown the hopes of democracy in the Middle East . 
Everything else in Iraq depends on stopping the killing . 
Iraq is a vacuum , and in Falluja , Talafar and Baghdad , violence and the unacceptable terror of hostage-taking has rushed in to fill the space emptied by the fall of Saddam Hussein . 
Yet too often , the coalition forces and the struggling Iraqi Government have met violence with blundering violence . 
Helicopter gunships and heavy-handed military tactics in crowded urban streets can only feed the resentment and the disorder that recruits for militancy . 
Iraq needs international help : a deep and wide commitment that can not afford to countenance failure . 
Under the auspices of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1546 the international community must offer every assistance to the interim government , and then to its sovereign successor . 
I welcome the commitment our diplomatic expert , Mr Bot , has expressed here today . 
Liberals and Democrats believe that the European Union has experience to offer in everything from restoring Iraq 's devastated infrastructure to advising on the drafting of its new constitution . 
That is why we have backed the Commission 's call for a further EUR 200 million to be made available in humanitarian assistance . 
But Iraq needs more than money . 
If the cycle of violence can be broken , Europe can help train policemen , judges and teachers . 
Europe can help rebuild civil society in Iraq through support for non-governmental organisations , trade unions and political parties . 
The European Union can play a key role in supporting and securing the elections to the Transitional Iraqi National Assembly in January of next year . 
In a country where almost every citizen relies on government aid , we can help find the rice and the wheat flour that stand between Iraq and starvation , and the soap that guards against devastated public sanitation . 
We believe that Europe must help Iraq take steps away from authoritarianism . 
The new Iraq must be built on stable democratic institutions . 
Iraq presents us with a challenge . 
Only stable , democratic government offers the chance to remake the Middle East , and that may require our commitment for a generation . 
I am somewhat surprised by the Council 's response , as I think we should be aware of the issue of caged beds . 
Not only is it cruel , unjust and undignified , but it causes the children concerned anger , aggression and depression . 
The use of caged beds breaks international law : it is contrary to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and is condemned by Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch . 
I have a number of supplementary questions . 
How will the Council monitor the situation ? 
What pressure can the Council bring to bear to end this outrageous use of caged beds ? 
They exist not only in the Czech Republic but also in Slovakia , Slovenia and Hungary . 
What support can be given to the various countries to ensure that a ban is properly implemented ? 
And finally , what is the Council proposing to do in terms of the enlargement negotiations with Romania , where I believe this is also a problem ? 
I would welcome your response , Mr Nicolaï . 
I urge you to take this issue very seriously . 
Mr President , I consider it an affront to democracy and humanity that Burma will be represented at the ASEM Meeting in Hanoi in October . 
As the previous speaker , Mr Schmidt , has said , the three necessary conditions for Burma 's attendance at the meeting have not been met : the release of Aung San Suu Kyi and other National League for Democracy leaders , their freedom to participate freely in the National Convention , and the modification of procedure of the National Convention . 
Meanwhile , according to Amnesty International , there have been thousands of reported cases of rape being used as a political weapon to subdue ethnic minorities . 
As recently as last week , it was reported that the Women 's League of Burma maintains that such rape is prevalent in many areas and that victims are frequently under the age of 18 and even under the age of 12 in at least one case . 
It is well known that the Burmese military is also believed to have a higher percentage of child soldiers than any other military in the world . 
I strongly oppose Burma 's participation in the forthcoming meeting and I hope that the invitation to Burma will be withdrawn until democracy is restored and Aung San Suu Kyi set free . 
Mr President , Mr Prodi , five years and one month ago you addressed this house as President-designate of an untested Commission . 
You told us that you wanted to put Europe at the service of the people of Europe . 
Liberals and Democrats backed you then , and five exhausting years later , we back you now . 
Liberals and Democrats believe that in the long view of the Prodi Commission certain things will stand out . 
Your Commission launched the Lisbon Agenda and inaugurated the euro . 
Your Commission began the work of internal reform . 
It was the steward of Europe 's enlargement from 15 to 25 states . 
Your Commission moved Europe into the world of common European security against terror . 
You inherited a Commission badly scarred by scandal . 
You promised this House that you would put the Commission 's house in order . 
That work is not finished , but it has been courageously championed by Commissioner Kinnock and you leave behind you a Commission in which reform has a firm foothold . 
As part of that process you have worked to make the Commission 's relationship with this House open , productive and respectful . 
Your successor will do well to do the same . 
Your Commission inherited a Europe searching for the road to economic reform . 
It leaves behind a Europe which found that road at Lisbon , however hesitantly we have stepped down it . 
In the service of the Lisbon Agenda your Commission has been an engine of intelligent , inventive , reformist single market legislation . 
Liberals and Democrats recognise and honour the exceptional personal stamp that Commissioner Bolkestein has placed on that work . 
In particular , the launch of the euro -- the single largest logistical operation in Europe in 60 years -- was a practical and political triumph . 
Liberals and Democrats believe that we have not gone far enough on the road to economic reform or achieved what we could have . 
But if Europe is unlikely to achieve the Lisbon goals , the fault lies not with a Commission that failed to set the rules , but with Member States that too often failed to keep them . 
The Lisbon Agenda has too often been subordinated to the Paris Agenda or the Berlin Agenda or the London Agenda . 
Your Commission inherited the battered but hopeful Europe of 1989 , still divided by a line from Trieste to Gdansk . 
Today that line is gone , wiped away by an historic enlargement that this Commission has every right to take credit for . 
We recognise your work , and the work of Commissioner Verheugen and the work of the hundreds of dedicated Commission staff who made the climb . 
Mr Prodi , in my country politicians most often get into trouble in their brushes with the other sex ! 
I can think of two in your case : Penelope and Marta . 
You quickly dropped the first , and I am delighted to see today that you have finally ditched the second . 
It is the conviction of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe that the Prodi Commission has honoured the commitments it made to this House five years ago . 
Some will use today the tired claim that you have been more interested in Italian politics than the stewardship of the European Commission . 
But how can one review the achievements of this Commission and then insist that you had only one foot in Brussels . 
It was said of the Emperor Augustus of Rome -- another Italian with a European destiny -- that he inherited a city of brick and left behind a city of marble . 
Liberals and Democrats believe that handed a city of brick , your Commission leaves behind a bigger , better , wiser Europe . 
I can sum it all up in one Italian word , Mr Prodi : ! 
-- Mr President , your Commission is rightly proud of its role in the enlargement of the European Union . 
The European Free Alliance parties welcome our new neighbours and look forward to the day when our own countries -- Scotland , Wales and Catalonia for example -- can take their place at the top table as independent Member States . 
Five years ago , Mr Prodi , you spoke at some length about the need for the European Union to reconnect with its citizens . 
Until five years ago opinion polls showed there to be higher levels of public support for the EU in Scotland than in other parts of the UK . 
However , that support differential has now been eroded . 
One of the principal reasons for that is a policy that has been one of the European Union 's biggest failures -- the common fisheries policy . 
Your Commission had the task of reforming the CFP . 
You had an opportunity to give hope to Scotland 's fishing communities , but instead you gave despair . 
You could have taken up proposals from this Parliament to establish meaningful , devolved , regional management of fisheries , but instead you promoted toothless advisory councils . 
The blame can not be laid solely on the European Commission , as successive UK governments have repeatedly sacrificed Scotland 's interests , but the final straw for my party -- a pro-European party -- was the illogical decision taken this year to include the CFP as one of only a handful of exclusive competences in the draft Constitution . 
With that clause remaining , we will be voting against the Constitution in any referendum . 
The Commission 's end-of-term report , fisheries section , must therefore read ` failed ' ! 
Mr President , I welcome both the Commission 's intention to reform the generalised system of preferences and the resolution that we have just adopted . 
It is very important that the system be simplified and made more accessible for developing countries , particularly the least developed countries . 
In addition , it is very important that we maintain within the system the special incentive arrangements for the protection of labour rights -- which are hardly used at the moment -- and the special rights for the environment -- which are also under -- used . 
Any reform must encourage the further and greater use of those rights . 
Again , it is important that this be protected in any reform of the GSP . 
To conclude , if these areas are safeguarded , it is encouraging that the Commission has decided to modernise the GSP . 
Mr President , on Friday , the International Council for Exploration of the Sea published its annual fish stock assessment figures , advice which showed that North Sea haddock stocks exceed even last year 's record highs . 
Yet the headline story fed to the media , in advance of that advice , referred only to cod stocks and the lack of improvement therein in the North Sea . 
This has echoes of last year 's situation when , after the publication of scientific advice , there followed threats to close the entire North Sea to all fishing . 
Ultimately , at the December Council last year , the Commission tabled a quota recovery plan which quickly proved to be unworkable . 
It did nothing to safeguard cod and it prevented Scots fishermen from catching their allowed haddock quota . 
If -- and I say if -- we have a new fisheries Commissioner by the end of this week , I call upon him fully to involve the new North Sea Regional Advisory Council in the setting of quotas in advance of this December 's Council , so that a sensible and workable plan on quota setting procedure can take place . 
Mr President , many communities , many families in Scotland are highly dependent upon the fishing industry , an industry which has had massive economic and social pain inflicted upon it as a direct result of political decisions made in Brussels under the common fisheries policy . 
The rocketing cost of fuel could be the final straw for many businesses -- and a fishing boat in Scotland very often is a business , a family-run business -- which have been forced by the CFP to operate this year for only 15 days each month . 
Some EU governments apparently recognise the exceptional economic pressure which rising fuel prices puts upon the fisheries sector . 
Recently France , supported by at least four other Member States , saw it as a long-term Community mechanism for granting public aid to the sector . 
This initiative was opposed -- unsurprisingly -- by the UK , citing the need to respect state aid and competition rules . 
I think the real reason for the UK failing to support that proposal was , as usual , that it did not wish for any precedent which might require it to aid its fishing industry -- which it never does . 
Mr Fischler , regrettably , was also unsympathetic , apparently saying that fisheries , unlike the agriculture sector , could easily respond to the fuel price increases by increasing fish prices . 
That is all very well , but what about the consumer , and what about the fact that fish products are relatively healthy and are recommended by dieticians to consumers ? 
The agriculture sector in Scotland is also suffering greatly from high fuel costs , not just through the direct use of fuel on farms , but also owing to the excessive cost of sending their produce to distant markets , an economic pressure which the UK Treasury has also added to in the form of unjustly high levels of taxation . 
But it is people and communities and not just businesses that suffer . 
The , the newspaper of the Orkney Islands , reports a 67 % rise in the price of fuel leading to an overspend by Orkney Ferries . 
Sometimes in the Orkney Isles , the Shetland Isles and the Western Isles it is normal and indeed essential for people to take two ferries to get to work or to shop . 
This is not just affecting businesses , it is impacting on a whole community . 
My Group and this House have offered a sober and considered rejection of his nominee for Commissioner for Justice and Home Affairs . 
Mr Barroso , we recognise that you could work only with what you were given . 
We recognise that your independence is not total . 
We have , on the whole , offered our support for the other members of your Commission . 
But our judgement stands , and it will be respected . 
I welcome the package of measures that you have put before this House today . 
I believe you come here in a genuine search for rapprochement . 
Some of the measures you propose are bold and all of them are important . 
I believe that you are committed personally to the promotion of fundamental rights and that this spirit will infuse the Commission you will lead . 
This House is not asking to be placated or patronised . 
We are asking that the other branches of our European government recognise what our Treaties recognise and what the European Constitution recognises : that power in Europe rests in some measure with this Chamber and its elected Members . 
The approval process is not a rubber stamp and this Parliament should not be treated as one . 
It has been said often in the last week that it will be Liberals and Democrats who decide the fate of this Commission . 
But Liberals and Democrats did not nominate the Commissioners rejected by Parliament 's committees . 
It was not Liberals and Democrats who would not or could not find the compromise that might have put Mr Buttiglione beyond the reach of controversy . 
Whatever happens tomorrow , the fate of this Commission has more than one architect . 
Moreover , I know that I am not the only one in this Chamber who feels that there is an invisible elephant in the room . 
The elephant is Justus Lipsius . 
The elephant is in the heads of the governments who gave you a weaker Commission than you deserve , and then refused to come to your aid when our House called their bluff . 
How many of Europe 's governments would have done what Mr Berlusconi probably did and told you to take their man , , even if it left you with a Commission containing a Commissioner whose political feet of clay would probably disqualify him from inclusion in most of the European Union 's national governments ? 
My Group feels that Member States owe Europe their best and their brightest . 
How many governments have shown their willingness to accept the democratic and legal right of our Parliament to judge the men and women who were proposed ? 
The silence you hear is the sound of Europe 's governments leaving you and your new Commission swinging in the wind . 
As the defenders of the Community method , the strength of our House is ultimately the strength of yours . 
Because if the Council can mock the prerogative of this Parliament , then be absolutely sure that it thinks the same of the independence of your Commission . 
The Council prefers this Parliament to be weak . 
Too many in the Council find it convenient for the Commission to be weak . 
My Group wants this Parliament to be strong , because we can not conceive of a strong European Union without it . 
And we want your Commission to be strong because the European Union needs an independent executive of the highest calibre . 
We have demanded a new framework agreement with your Commission : draft it and sign it , so that we will not be brought to this impasse again . 
This House faces a heavy choice . 
If Liberals and Democrats vote against the Commission-designate , we will not do so lightly . 
But we can not , and we will not , diminish the status of this House , the standing of the Civil Liberties Committee or the stature of the post of the European Commissioner for Justice and Home Affairs in the interest of an easy life . 
You might say -- if I can use Mr Buttiglione 's own words -- that we will not change our principles against our conscience for political convenience . 
After the hearings , I heard spokespeople for certain political groups express deep disappointment at the performance of certain individuals but go on to say that because he or she was a member of their political family , they would support them anyway . 
Mr Barroso acknowledged certain specific weaknesses -- conflicts of interest -- and claimed to have attempted to deal with that . 
I think conflicts of interest are as much about perception as actuality . 
Surely , it is not too much to expect each individual to have done enough homework to be able to demonstrate that they have mastered their brief . 
Citizens ' expectations and our sense of responsibility were referred to . 
My sense of responsibility demands that I vote against the Commission tomorrow . 
. Mr President , the Committee on International Trade 's demands are very modest and we are pleased that the Committee on Budgets has agreed to the two key demands that we made . 
First we objected to the Council 's reductions from the preliminary draft budget in terms of staffing for DG Trade . 
Given the extent of the talks taking place at WTO level , the number of disputes that now go before the WTO disputes panel and the need to open further external offices of the European Union , we thought that to cut the DG Trade 's budget was unacceptable . 
I am pleased to say that the Committee on Budgets agreed with us and through the global amendment has restored those cuts . 
The second issue that the Committee on International Trade had concerns about was the need to have a parliamentary forum to follow the work of the WTO . 
Again we wanted to make sure there was a budget line to finance that parliamentary forum and again the Committee on Budgets agreed with us . 
So the Committee on International Trade is very happy that the Committee on Budgets has approved , in their entirety , both the amendments we put forward . 
I hope now that this House will back the Committee on Budgets and that the Council will accept the amendments made by Parliament . 
Thank you for that answer , Commissioner Byrne . 
As you said , new research suggests that in some cases , one in a hundred babies could be affected . 
Other research suggests that the figure is one in three hundred . 
In fact , according to Friday 's , which dealt with what is happening in France , about 7 000 babies born there are thought to be mentally or physically damaged by passive consumption of alcohol in the womb . 
Mr Philippe Douste-Blazy , the French Minister for Health , said that FAS was ` aside from genetic factors , the prime cause of mental retardation in children ' . 
This is clearly a European issue and one that we have to take seriously . 
I hope that the Commission 's alcohol strategy will look at what is happening in the United States of America , where alcohol products are properly labelled with a health warning . 
Commissioner , how can we make the possibility a reality ? 
The delivery of his speech at 33 r.p.m. was quite exquisite . 
This Council will work through the findings of the Kok Report on reviving the Lisbon Agenda . 
Advance sightings of that report suggest a surprisingly coherent piece of work . 
My Group welcomes the prospect of a leaner , more focused redirection of the Lisbon Agenda . 
I notice , incidentally , that the Kok Report tempers our rhetoric a little : instead of ` the most competitive knowledge -- based economy in the world ' , it talks of ` among the best in the world ' . 
I do not take this as a lessening of ambition . 
The focus for the Lisbon Agenda should not be international benchmarking . 
The goal is delivering sustainable prosperity and a better quality of life for Europe 's citizens in a way that reflects the innate potential and unique dynamic of European life , not crossing some notional finish line ahead of China or the United States . 
The Kok Report rightly stresses the need for European Member States to coordinate better . 
We can not run a single market without a single mindset . 
How many European states are setting their national economic agendas with Lisbon in mind ? 
Not many . 
Not enough . 
What matters this weekend is that the Kok Report does not become a substitute for concerted action by the Council . 
The Council will also address the multiannual agenda for justice and home affairs , the ` Tampere-Plus ' , of which Mr Verheugen spoke . 
The ambition is to restate the broad scope of justice and home affairs policy in the European Union . 
Europe has never had a greater need of a balanced , liberal approach to migration and asylum . 
The evident desire in some national capitals to outsource our international legal duties to refugees and asylum seekers to clapboard states outside our borders must be resisted . 
` Tampere-Plus ' also means ` after-Madrid ' . 
The fight against terrorism and the urgent need for better judicial and police cooperation must be priorities . 
Liberals and Democrats will be particularly vigilant in ensuring that measures to make us safer in Europe do not erode our fundamental freedoms . 
The Union will soon have new legislation on procedural safeguards and the rights of defendants , and we remind the Council that those rights are non-negotiable . 
We also want a commitment to a new third-pillar data protection instrument to guarantee Europe-wide data protection for Europe 's citizens . 
These rights must form the centrepiece of the new agenda . 
Yesterday I referred to the Council as the invisible elephant . 
Now the elephant is here , and I hope that it will listen to what this House says today , reflect on our rights and the way we choose to exercise them and respect the prerogatives of this Chamber , whatever happens during the vote today . 
There is work to be done and we feel on balance , Mr Barrosso , that your Commission is now ready to do it . 
I was surprised to hear you suggest that a political group in this House had tied your hands , because I thought they had already been tied in Rome , in Budapest , in The Hague ! 
We want you to have that freedom . 
You blamed the House for the lack of freedom to manoeuvre when , in fact , we have worked with you to build this compromise and when not one of us in this Parliament faces the European government that we might have chosen for ourselves . 
We want a new framework agreement because without the ability to scrutinise your Commission effectively , we can not do our job properly . 
The motion for a resolution tabled today makes it clear that we do not take lightly the issues of propriety or competence or conflict of interest for any Commissioner in any portfolio . 
That is something that you and your Commissioners will have to earn : every day , every month , brick by brick , in this stronger , closer European Union . 
Mr President , the interesting thing about the last six weeks has been that we have proved that politics is not a zero-sum game , and that more than one institution can win when we have a dispute . 
The Commission has emerged from this process better equipped and more able to perform its tasks over the next five years . 
Parliament has benefited because we have demonstrated that we can control the executive and that we have an influence on the formation of the executive . 
That is good for this House . 
Turning briefly to my own area -- I am now a member of the Committee on International Trade -- Mr Mandelson performed extremely well in front of the committee . 
He demonstrated a firm grasp of the subject matter he will have to deal with over the next five years and he also showed a powerful desire to work with the European Parliament . 
These are all very positive things . 
This remains loyal to Article 41 ( Right to good administration ) in Chapter V ( Citizens ' Rights ) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union . 
I applaud the report 's call for even greater transparency within the European Institutions . 
I also agree with the point that an increase in the complaints to the Ombudsman over the past year may not necessarily be seen as a bad thing , as the facility is becoming more widely known throughout Europe as a practical port of call for complaints . 
Mr President , I raise this point while keeping in mind the difficulty that the President was facing . 
I was very unhappy that an ordinary Member of this Parliament -- a backbench Member -- wishing to raise a point of order was refused the floor and yet when the leader of a group asked for the floor , he was immediately accorded that right . 
The President should respect all Members equally in these circumstances . 
There is no preference for group leaders when it comes to points of order . 
I would ask you , in a gentle way , to point this out to the President of Parliament . 
Mr President , the case of Tenzin Delek Rinpoche was raised with me by several of my constituents in Scotland , including Iain Thom and Naomi Ness of the University of Edinburgh Tibet Society . 
On 3 December 2002 , Tenzin Delek Rinpoche was condemned to death after being convicted of trumped-up and politically-motivated charges in a court in Tibetan China . 
He was framed for a crime he did not commit , and this is backed up by independent research by Human Rights Watch . 
He remains in Chinese custody , waiting to die , and his current whereabouts are unknown . 
However , Tenzin Delek has always maintained his innocence . 
He is no friend of the Chinese authorities . 
The arrest , detention and sham trial of Tenzin Delek mark the culmination of a clampdown on his activities and on those of his associates who , even now , face severe penalties if they dare advocate on his behalf . 
The paradoxical silence that followed the death sentence on Tenzin Delek , who is such a popular figure , is attributed by Human Rights Watch to a campaign of intimidation and terror executed by the Chinese authorities . 
The Chinese authorities , claiming that state secrets were involved , still refuse to disclose what actually happened in court . 
In short , his trial was a sham . 
Regrettably , the case of Tenzin Delek Rinpoche must be placed in the context of a catalogue of the human rights abuses perpetrated by the Chinese authorities against the Tibetan people both in the Tibet Autonomous Region and Tibetan China . 
The systematic repression of all things Tibetan just about sums up Chinese policy on the matter . 
The European Parliament must send a clear message to China that this policy is unacceptable and it must do all it can to ensure the protection of human rights and the cultural , political , environmental and religious identity of the Tibetan people . 
The miscarriage of justice suffered by Tenzin Delek must be put right . 
I would therefore ask all Members to support this resolution . 
Mr President , the economic and social life of the island communities of Scotland is very heavily dependent on the west-coast ferry routes . 
The Scottish Executive , on legal advice and after consulting the previous European Commission , decided that under EU competition law these routes would have to be put out to private tender and private operators should be given the opportunity to take the contracts away from the state-owned Caledonian MacBrayne company . 
Last week , in a highly unusual move -- in fact it is only the second time since the Scottish Parliament was created that this has happened -- the Scottish Parliament defeated the executive on this very issue and said that the Executive and the Commission should rethink their position on these lifeline services . 
Mr President , given that the islands are now in a state of limbo -- the parliament has stopped the executive from acting and the executive believes it has a duty to act under EU law -- I would ask that you request the transport and competition Commissioners to examine this matter urgently and determine whether these island routes really have to be put out to tender under EU competition law . 
Mr President , I wish to make a plea on behalf of Europe 's stateless nations . 
Like Mr Alvaro I was struck by our proximity to Christmas . 
All the good little boys and girls have drawn up their Christmas lists and instead of sending them to Lapland we are sending them to the Berlaymont . 
Mr Barroso , it is up to you to find out in January whether you have been Father Christmas or Scrooge . 
However , I hope you will make all our Christmases merry and bright . 
I refer to paragraph 3 in the Christmas list in the name of Mrs Frassoni and Mr Cohn-Bendit and the reference to the subsidiarity protocol , which is the biggest opportunity your Commission has to put meaning to the often empty phrases about subsidiarity and bringing Europe closer to the people . 
The subsidiarity protocol represents an opportunity for the Commission to do something brave and new . 
It is perfectly possible for the Commission to act as if the protocol were in force from this afternoon . 
Regardless of any decision on the Constitution itself , this Commission could act in a way totally unlike its predecessors and involve the relevant institution at the relevant time , regardless of whether or not it is a nation-state parliament . 
By way of example , until five years ago , my own country , Scotland , had no parliament . 
Now we have a parliament , a government and a civil service with near total power over health , education , justice , home affairs , the environment and many other areas . 
The only thing we do not control is money , which , as colleagues will be aware , is a subject close to any Scotsman 's heart . 
However , we are bigger than Ireland and have more people than Denmark . 
The relevant institution for the Commission to deal with in Scotland is the European Parliament and the Scottish Parliament and yet our flag is not there . 
We are firmly in the second class when it comes to relations with Europe and yet we could contribute so much . 
I would urge you , Mr Barroso , to make our Christmas merry and bright and use your Commission and the subsidiarity protocol to put meaning to the phrases about subsidiarity , about bringing Europe home , because you will gain , we will gain and Europe will gain . 
Mr President , deep-water coral reefs are a resource which deserves our protection . 
According to the United Nations , deep-water coral reefs are a vulnerable habitat which require special attention . 
ICES advises that the only way to protect cold-water habitats from fishing damage is to map the habitats precisely and to close those areas to the forms of fishing that cause damage . 
The only way to protect deep-water coral reefs is to prohibit the use of bottom trawls and similar gears . 
It was early this year that this House recognised deep-water coral reefs , when the Darwin Mounds , off the north-west coast of Scotland , were given special status as an area of conservation . 
Now we turn to the other deep-water coral reefs off the Canary Islands and around Madeira and the Azores , and I hope there will be continuation of protection to those areas on a permanent basis . 
Deep-water coral reefs should not be destroyed by bottom trawling , but should be protected for future generations to enjoy . 
I want to enter one caveat : there is still serious evidence about the lack of professionalism of the Bulgarian judiciary and of its lack of independence . 
I would urge the Bulgarian Government to address those issues within the next year so that they can become members in 2007 . 
Mr President , again I congratulate the rapporteur on his report and note with satisfaction the progress that Romania has made towards membership of the Community . 
However , I enter a different caveat this time : the situation of orphans and young children . 
Finally , Mr President , I thank you and your excellent staff for all the cooperation through the year , and wish you a Merry Christmas . 
Mr President , the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is the most lethal since the Second World War . 
Both the transitional government and its international partners have failed to deal with the root causes of the conflict . 
Natural resource exploitation has funded and fuelled the instability in the country and , indeed , has fuelled instability and violence in the Congo for over a hundred years . 
What should have been a blessing to that country has turned out to be a source of deep sadness and regret and , indeed , a curse . 
The Congo 's natural wealth has been a source of private funding for military and political elites instead of benefiting the vast majority of the Congolese population . 
Only if such measures are taken can we hold out any hope that the elections due next year will make any difference to the tragic situation in that country . 
. Mr President , Members of the Committee on Fisheries are well attuned to opinion in Europe 's coastal and island communities . 
That committee , in a near unanimous decision , endorsed my opinion on this Constitution . 
The most important paragraph in that opinion , which will be retabled tomorrow for voting as Amendment No 13 on behalf of my Group , refers to exclusive competence . 
It ` considers that within the context of the other exclusive competences of the EU , which are detailed in the Constitution , the inclusion of the conservation of marine biological resources is anomalous and unjustified ' . 
The common fisheries policy has not been one of the European Union 's success stories . 
Decision-making is too centralised , too inflexible and too remote from the communities that it affects . 
To entrench the CFP effectively in primary constitutional law is a major step in the wrong direction and one that will -- I believe -- be an obstacle to the kind of major reforms demanded by the fishing communities that I am familiar with . 
Exclusive competence takes the CFP outwith the principle of subsidiarity , ensuring that regional advisory councils can never evolve into management bodies . 
I hope that colleagues will support Amendment No 13 tomorrow and support the fishing communities , as the Fisheries Committee of this Parliament has done . 
These communities strongly believe that exclusive competence is not only unnecessary but is indeed anomalous and unjustified . 
Mr President , there are some things to admire in this Constitution but there are also many things to dislike . 
On balance my party has decided that it can not recommend it to the people of Scotland , and accordingly will not be voting for the report . 
We have a number of objections to the Constitution itself , but in the seconds remaining I will simply mention the inadequate subsidiarity provisions . 
Scotland is not independent yet , but the Scottish Parliament is already the only body responsible for justice , the environment , education , health and many other areas of Scottish life . 
The provisions in this Treaty for incorporating it into the EU law-making process are inadequate . 
We have seen in the field of fisheries the disastrous consequences of EU legislation being inadequately sensitive to reality on the ground within the Member States or territories of the Union , and this Constitution will not sufficiently improve EU law-making for Scotland . 
More to the point , it does not take account of the dignity of my country . 
We can not recommend it to the people of Scotland and will not be voting for it . 
If you take the qualifications that the Commissioner expressed in his answer to the first question at face value , it is clear that this directive would not apply to the UK health service , which is based on care that is free at the point of use . 
If we can take his reassurances at face value , why does he not simply exclude health from the scope of this directive ? 
Madam President , I know how hard it is to chair these sessions , but I wonder what relevance that supplementary had to Mr Mitchell 's original question ? 
Mrs Cederschiöld seemed to have jumped back to the previous question . 
I know my colleague Mr De Rossa had a genuine supplementary on the previous question and was refused the floor ! 
I fully accept what the Commissioner says about the changing circumstances . 
However , I would ask her , in her new role , to keep this Protocol under constant review and to keep the pressure on Israel to observe the contents of the Protocol . 
I know that in the past the Commission has taken action on products that have come from East Jerusalem , the Golan Heights , the West Bank and the Gaza Strip . 
I ask her to continue to monitor the situation to ensure that products from those areas are not labelled as ` products of Israel ' . 
Commissioner , regardless of the facts of this case , when you next meet the justice ministers , will you make it clear to them that , under the various international conventions you mention and in the spirit of membership of the European Union , it is unacceptable for the authorities of one Member State -- be they political or judicial -- to carry out phone tapping in another Member State , without the express approval of that Member State ? 
. Mr President , this is the eleventh Luxembourg presidency . 
Mr President-in-Office , your presidency has high standards of its own to live up to and the high expectations of others to meet . 
Simultaneously President-in-Office of the European Council and of the Economic and Finance Council , you are in a unique position from which to reach agreement on one of your biggest and most delicate objectives -- the financial perspectives for 2007-2013 . 
Liberals and Democrats are pleased to note that in your presidency programme you say that ` all progress towards European construction requires adequate financial resources ' . 
We hope you will not be limited by dogmatic demands to cap the Union 's budget at 1 % for the next decade . 
We are not profligate with European citizens ' taxes and we insist that every euro be well spent and properly accounted for . 
Nonetheless , we , too , recognise that the European Union has justifiable ambitions , whether to run a coherent security strategy , generous development policy or an effective policy of regional aid and social cohesion . 
These all have a cost , and we should not limit our political ambitions by penny-pinching over what is , after all , a relatively modest budget . 
I wish you every success in securing agreement in June , for I fear the approach of your successors in this , as in other matters , is unlikely to command a consensus . 
My Group will call upon you to specify new arrangements for the Stability and Growth Pact , which underpins the single currency . 
As ` Mr Euro ' , it is your right and duty to speak out for the euro and the euro zone . 
If France and Germany are allowed to escape with a mild rebuke for exceeding the deficit limits for several consecutive years , if Greece is absolved from misrepresenting its true fiscal state to gain fast-track entry to the euro , and if Italy continues to be reckless with its budget while harbouring a public debt of over 100 % , who will have confidence in those rules ? 
The Stability Pact needs adjusting but it also needs enforcing , with proper monitoring arrangements like those used by the IMF . 
We will look to you and your Council colleagues to be vigilant and true to your commitments . 
Your term in office will coincide with the mid-term review of the much vaunted and little respected Lisbon Agenda . 
It is in serious danger of stalling . 
Your commitment to a relaunch at this halfway mark will bear fruit if you succeed in completing the single market , in finding more funding for research and in promoting a favourable climate for entrepreneurship . 
But do not try to be all things to all people . 
Structural labour market reform is essential to Lisbon . 
Neither should you underestimate the challenge of enforcing existing directives . 
My Group also welcomes your commitment to move to the Community method in matters of justice and home affairs so important to our citizens . 
We also share your ambitions for enlargement . 
Croatia is a candidate country with which you must open negotiations . 
Let us be clear , as regards Croatia , that we expect General Gotovina to hand himself over or be turned over to The Hague to answer the case against him . 
Croatia can not duck that issue . 
As Mr Poettering said , we can not ignore the momentous events in Ukraine in the last two months . 
As a collective body of institutions , we must encourage the opening-up of that country and review bilateral relations in the light of new circumstances . 
That is a task for your presidency . 
In conclusion , as the Constitution enters its ratification phase , you may have three referenda on your watch , and you must do all in your power to make sure they succeed . 
If political forces in Spain are allowed to raise the ghost of regional autonomy , if , in France , the debate is muddied by Turkish membership , if , in Britain , EU financing becomes an issue in the Constitutional Treaty debate , the whole thing will come crashing down around Europe 's ears . 
Leave those issues where they belong and make sure Europe gets the Constitution it needs . 
. Mr President , this is a global tragedy requiring a global response . 
It provides an opportunity to reassert the role and the benefit of multilateral action through the United Nations , but also a challenge to the United Nations to prove itself up to the task . 
Thus far , its response has been promising . 
The response of the European Union , too , has put us on to a good start , and I salute the prompt action of Commissioner Michel and the support that his colleagues gave . 
European Union aid , both public and private , has been impressive in its generosity . 
ECHO funds were released rapidly in the aftermath of the disaster . 
Let us make sure that these pledges are honoured -- only two per cent of the USD 1 billion pledged to the reconstruction of the Iranian city of Bam after the earthquake there has been spent . 
Let us not be complacent , for the present ECHO can act as a financier . 
In the longer term we must have the potential to send troops , ships , floating hospitals and helicopters to assist in disaster relief . 
More than 150 000 people have lost their lives , whole communities have been wiped out . 
Five million more people are injured or have lost their homes , livelihoods or families . 
Many are children at risk of falling prey to child traffickers and others . 
Goodwill abroad notwithstanding , children from those devastated communities should not be removed from the societies and traditions that they know . 
Unicef and others must act swiftly to provide the shelter , protection and registration that those children need if they are to rebuild their lives and perhaps , eventually , be traced by relatives . 
This tragedy has called forth a major response in donations from individuals a world away , to families of victims they have never met , yet wish to help , reminding us how small our global community is . 
Let us build on this opportunity to set aside our differences . 
We need close monitoring of the aid to make sure it is not used to fuel regional conflicts and is not diverted by corrupt local officials . 
Let us have a scoreboard for EU reconstruction efforts , just as the United Nations must have a tracking system for aid channelled through its agencies . 
And let the Commission extend its lead in coordinating the Union 's response . 
If each Member State contributed an expert in humanitarian aid to ECHO , a central resource would exist with expertise in the response capacity of different national facilities . 
Finally , one clear lesson from this is our frailty in the face of the forces of nature . 
We can not tame them , but we can collectively mitigate their devastation . 
We have the technology to detect earthquakes in the world 's danger spots . 
Providing it to regions at risk can be achieved at modest expense and perhaps save hundreds of thousands of lives . 
There are clear advantages for drivers in having a coherent framework for the recognition of their insurance policies and claims across frontiers . 
This report should also add clarity to what legal assistance drivers are entitled to following an accident . 
I hope the dispute over ` vehicle and trailer ' issues does not stop this being adopted without need for conciliation . 
The fact that this Parliament 's Fisheries Committee almost unanimously supported that view in its opinion reflects a strongly held point of view in Scotland 's fisheries dependent communities . 
This is yet another example of failure on the part of a Westminster Government to act in the best interests of fishing communities , and will undoubtedly motivate many voters in Scotland to vote for rejection of the Constitutional Treaty in a referendum . 
The Constitution will improve the transparency , effectiveness and efficiency of the Union . 
In my own field of trade it will improve significantly the role of the European Parliament and therefore bring greater clarity and democratic scrutiny to a vital area where the EU has exclusive competence . 
This should enable NGOs , trade unions , commercial organisations and others to follow in more detail and to influence the negotiations leading to international agreements . 
Clearly there is a danger , now that Spain and Ireland have made their requests , that other Member States will follow through . 
In the interim , subject to the final settlement of this at Community level , I wonder whether the presidency would encourage Member States collectively to print key Community documents , such as the Constitution , and key legislative texts in all the minority languages of their Member State . 
Then it would not be a Community burden ; it would be a burden on the Member States . 
That would be a pragmatic way of getting round this difficulty . 
Too often we see Question Time as an expendable part of our activities . 
For humble backbenchers , it is sometimes the only opportunity that we get to put questions to the Commission and the Council and to get direct responses . 
It is a shame if we continue to allow this process of squeezing Question Time out of our business . 
I would ask you to raise this with the Bureau . 
The resolution is nevertheless right to note that much of the money pledged by EU governments to help rebuild the shattered infrastructure and lives in the Countries hit by the Tsunami is not new money but has largely been taken from other development projects . 
We must not ask the people of Africa and other poor countries to bear the cost of our justified humanitarian response to the Tsunami victims . 
The money we give should be in addition to our normal development budget . 
The international community should also pay particular attention to the plight of children , some of whom face the real danger of being victims twice if they are not given protection from those ever willing to exploit their vulnerability 
The recent EU/US agreement over Airbus / Boeing should do much to improve the climate of trade talks between the two . 
Mr Mandelson deserves our warm congratulations for brokering this settlement . 
However , other serious transatlantic problems remain , such as the failure of the US to sign-up for the International Criminal Court and the Kyoto protocol . 
Progress in these issues could lead to effective joint action by the two sides of the Atlantic . 
As the resolution rightly points out , a transatlantic ` Community of action ' could help resolve the Middle East crisis in Palestine , Iran and Iraq . 
It could help in the fight against international terrorism and could contribute to achieving the Millennium development goals of reducing poverty , disease and environmental degradation . 
It is a reminder to us all that , even though this is 2005 , some people in our world today still can not practice their religious beliefs without the threat of violence or , in Tenzin Deleg Rinpoche 's case , death . 
Since we last spoke about his case in this House , there have been rumours that his death sentence has been suspended and may be commuted to a life sentence . 
I also believe this House should strongly support the continuation of the EU embargo on arms sales to the People 's Republic of China until such time as the human rights situation has improved and China has taken the vital step of signing the United Nations Covenant on Civil and Political Rights . 
Further to this , we must continue to exert pressure on China to abolish the death penalty and place an immediate moratorium on capital punishment . 
We should be stressing to the Chinese authorities that Tenzin Deleg Rinpoche deserves a fair trial and not a sham trial . 
To conclude , there are many like Tenzin Deleg Rinpoche out there in our world today who deserve our support and the right to live in a country where religious freedom and human rights are respected . 
I hope this House can support this resolution . 
. Mr President , I have to say that I agree with Mr Markov and we should be calling on some of our colleagues here to wake up , because the EU policy of appeasing the cruel , fundamentalist dictatorship in Tehran has simply encouraged the mullahs to introduce increasingly repressive measures and carry out more sickening displays of barbarity . 
Stoning to death , amputation of limbs , floggings and torture are commonplace . 
I hope you will write to the Iranian Ambassador and object to that . 
Last month , Maryam Rajavi , the charismatic leader of the Iranian opposition movement , came here to the European Parliament in Strasbourg and told us that the solution in confronting this challenge is neither appeasement nor a military invasion . 
As a major US intelligence investigation recently disclosed , there is no justification for keeping the name of the Mujahedin on the EU terror list . 
Indeed , by agreeing to this demand from the mullahs , we have given them a further reason to impose the death penalty on supporters of the resistance movement . 
. I welcome the reasonably fair and free elections of Palestine and commend the satisfactory manner the elections were conducted despite the circumstances due to the Israeli occupation of Palestinian Territories . 
The results of the presidential elections should be seen as an opportunity to re-launch negotiations between the Israeli Government and the Palestinian Authorities . 
I urge Israel to fully respect the internationally recognised rights of Palestinians and call upon the Council and the Commission to develop another EU observatory mission in Palestine as compliance with the EU-Israeli Association Agreement needs to be enforced , notably Protocol IV of the Agreement . 
Israel 's infractions of the Fourth Geneva Convention continue to be a grave concern of the international community whereby constructive efforts of Quartet members acquiescent with Israel and Palestine is imperative for furthering the development of a final and comprehensive settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . 
The settlement is not only crucial for the Territories themselves but also for the promotion of peace and security for the whole of the Middle East and Arab World . 
. It is incredibly important to always accurately remember the atrocities committed at Auschwitz , liberated 60 years ago today . 
Collectively we must share the guilt across the EU for all of the suffering inflicted on the victims of The Holocaust . 
The European Union as it currently stands is the biggest safeguard we have against a recurrence of such horrors . 
However , we can always work to strengthen our joint provisions to protect human rights and individuals from discrimination . 
By remembering the grim past that the European Union has grown from it can help guide us in the most appropriate direction for the future . 
Another important consideration in our Group is subsidiarity : the decision should be taken at a level as close as possible to the citizen , which is compatible with a properly functioning single market . 
There is no need for Europe to step in where a decision is best taken at national or local level . 
We are therefore pleased that Mrs i n't Veld 's excellent report succeeds in accommodating these two priorities . 
The overall thrust is to call for fair competition in free markets . 
Like her , we would always prefer a transparent tendering process . 
However , if local authorities , in their wisdom , feel they can do better for their citizens , they can so do without having to notify the Commission , as long as they keep within the rules , which ensure that potential competitors are not harmed and , most specifically , that they are small in scale and very local in nature . 
A clear decision was achieved in committee that gives the Commission a strong steer . 
We are happy with this and we will support this same line tomorrow . 
We wish Mrs i n't Veld well with her report . 
This has been done to give Members the opportunity to ensure that the report clearly favours public service providers , particularly in the fields of health and social housing provision . 
The report affirms our belief in the importance of high-quality services of general interest that are accessible to all . 
It also recognises the right of local authorities to self-government . 
However , recital E contends that ` the internal market , liberalisation and compliance with the rules on competition have on the whole led to improved access to SGIs , new services with more choice , better quality and lower costs for consumers ' . 
In our view this is questionable to say the least . 
The report also asserts that no distinction should be made between public and private enterprises and that all SGIs should be put out to tender . 
The rapporteur seemed to suggest that there was some misunderstanding about this , but that is how it comes across . 
This would cause problems for in-house services within public bodies such as local housing authorities and health boards . 
My Group can not accept a lack of clarity on this point . 
On the contrary , we would support an approach that clearly exempts from the prior notification requirement the kinds of local services that do not affect the development of trade , and do not conflict with the interests of the European Union . 
State-aid rules have frequently led to difficulties and uncertainty for local authorities and other public service providers . 
We ought to have certainty , and we hope the House votes in favour of that tomorrow . 
Mr President , to add to what Ms in ' t Veld said , that Amendment 20 should have added at the end : ` or by way of an official act that , depending upon the legislation in the Member States , may take the form of one or more legislative or regulatory act or a contract ' . 
That is part of the arrangement that Ms in ' t Veld is referring to . 
Following on from that are oral amendments to Modifications 10 and 17 and recital Q. 
Mr President , I hope I can help you . 
If that is acceptable then we can go ahead . 
Mr Commissioner , you may not have the statistics but I certainly see in my newspapers in my constituency of Scotland all too often that our tourist guests are killed and injured on our roads in Scotland , and most particularly on roads that convert regularly from two-lane to four-lane and back to two-lane . 
Could not the Commissioner institute the gathering of statistics on this to see whether something should be done about it -- possibly to encourage the Member State concerned to ensure that as many as possible of our main trunk routes are four-lane -- for example , the Perth-to-Inverness trunk route ? 
I should also like to know whether there is any plan to consider harmonising the side of the road on which we are to drive in Europe . 
I look forward to receiving the report the Commissioner talked about on the development of our forestries . 
In the meantime , can she give us an assurance that the single farm payments that are going to come about as a result of decoupling , and which we know will have an environmental element , will have a strong tree-planting element as well ? 
Will she ensure that these payments are used to encourage farmers to continue to plant trees -- and a variety of trees , not just one species ? 
This does not solve the forestry problem , but it would increase the number of trees across the European Union and bring the environmental benefits to which she has referred . 
. This report supports a regulation to establish a common framework for the presentation of Community statistics on vocational training in enterprises . 
Although it sounds rather dry , this proposal is to be warmly welcomed as it underpins the policy of lifelong learning as a basic component of the European employment strategy ( as acknowledged by the Lisbon European Council in 2000 ) . 
. I support the stated objectives of this directive as it now stands , namely to reduce fraud , to guarantee truly free movement of EU drivers and to reinforce safety on European roads . 
I feel the amendments from the European Parliament have improved the proposal . 
Nevertheless , difficulties do remain that can be tidied up , particularly concerning motorcycles , caravans and motor-homes . 
Mr President , I will be very brief . 
I want to give an explanation of vote on behalf of the European Parliamentary Labour Party as to why it abstained on the amended proposal and then voted for the legislative resolution . 
Our explanation of vote is very simple . 
We believe that joint deployment plans are important for the effectiveness of the agency 's work . 
That is why we voted for those amendments . 
Amendment 36 to 43 clarify the rule of the agency in implementing these joint deployment plans and they also give an appropriate role to Regional Advisory Councils . 
Secondly , we accept that in the event of a Conservative government withdrawing from the CFP and returning fisheries management to local and national control many UK vessels will nevertheless continue to fish in EU waters out with the UK 200 mile limit . 
In these circumstances , and accepting the fact that the Commission policy to create an EU Fisheries Control Agency in Vigo is a , it will be in British interest to a working relationship with this new body . 
We therefore felt it was appropriate rather than opposing outright the proposal to abstain in this vote . 
I would like to ask , before your time is up as President-in-Office , if you would ask the Commission to report and show that Africa is still receiving as much money this year as it would have received if the tsunami had never happened ? 
. -- Mr President , I know that the Commission proposal is based on the best of good intentions and we support good intentions in the wake of the awful tsunami disaster . 
The trouble is that the road to hell is paved with good intentions . 
20 000 vessels under 12 metres in size were destroyed by the tsunami in the affected countries . 
The Commission proposal is to send somewhere between 150 and 200 old , redundant vessels from the Mediterranean to help replace the 20 000 that were destroyed . 
It is , as the Commission has pointed out , no more than a symbolic gesture . 
Therefore we are talking about roughly EUR 47 000 per vessel with the costs to be met entirely by Member States . 
I am reliably told from experts on the ground in the Indian Ocean that replacement vessels of exactly the size required can be built for EUR 2 000 each . 
For the same amount of money that we propose Member States should spend , we could build 3 500 fishing vessels . 
This would be a much more meaningful response . 
The Commission 's response to the amendments tabled by the various groups this morning would nevertheless suggest that the entire focus remains on this regulation to transfer vessels . 
I would suggest that the Commission refocuses and looks more closely at sending the things we can provide quickly , such as skilled experts , fishermen , carpenters , engineers , blacksmiths , boat builders , and the money to get people over there , as quickly as possible , to start rebuilding the kind of vessels they need to help replace the ones destroyed , instead of this nonsense of sending redundant , old , decrepit boats from the Mediterranean as a symbolic gesture . 
-- Mr President , it can sometimes be difficult to explain to European tax payers , our constituents , why it makes sense to use their money in order to destroy vessels that may well be seaworthy and which could be used in some way , even for non-fishing purposes . 
However , that does not mean that these vessels are suitable for use in any area . 
The more I have looked into the actual situation in the tsunami-hit countries , the more sceptical I have become about the value of this particular proposal . 
It may be a symbolic gesture and it may be that a small number of vessels could be used or converted , but I do not think that will be of major assistance to areas that were devastated . 
If this proposal is adopted in some way by the Council , I believe that the amendments would bring about very considerable improvements , not only to in a practical sense , but to its intention and spirit . 
A measure such as this should be looked at as an enabling measure ; not to enable Member States to actively offload unsuitable vessels to the these countries , but to enable those countries that have been affected to request certain vessels to be transferred to their areas if they are suitable for use or conversion . 
-- Mr President , we were all shocked by the physical and emotional devastation wreaked by the tsunami across south-east Asia on Boxing Day 2004 . 
It will be some time before the full extent of the loss and damage suffered by the fishing industry is known . 
But severe losses and/or damage to fishing vessels of all types have been reported from countries affected by the tsunami disaster , in particular Sri Lanka , Thailand , Indonesia and India . 
Sri Lanka , for instance , has lost nearly 70 % of its entire fishing fleet , according to a recent report by the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations . 
Most of the fishing in the area is carried out by thousands of small boats of around 4.8 m in length . 
As well as the loss of fishermen 's lives and boats and gear , harbours , production plants and freezing plants all suffered extensive damage . 
Normal fishing activity can not resume without intervention and investment . 
Understandably , we want to help . 
The urgency before us today relates to transferring vessels from EU Member States to countries hit by the tsunami . 
The proposal has been strongly criticised , as we hear this morning , as being inappropriate because the climate and fishing practices of EU countries vary from those of south-east Asia . 
I can understand why concern has been expressed over how suitable EU boats may be for fishing in south-east Asia . 
However , I welcome the proposal before us today on the basis that it allows for the transfer of boats that meet the restricted criteria and that might be useful . 
I also welcome amendments tabled on behalf of the PSE Group by Mr Kindermann , both singly and jointly with other groups , in particular the amendments that ensure that adverse effects on fisheries resources and the local economy are avoided , that the transfer is accompanied by any appropriate training , that boats are suitable and that the transfer meets the requirements of the FAO 's needs assessments and is requested by the third country . 
On that basis , I am happy to support the urgency and I call on colleagues to do likewise . 
-- Mr President , on a point of order . 
At the beginning of this debate , the Commission informed us that it would not accept most of the amendments that have been agreed between the political parties in this House . 
Under these circumstances we should think again , before the final resolution is voted upon . 
I would suggest that we are not in the business of political gestures ; we are in the business of giving real , meaningful help to the fishing communities that have lost their livelihoods and their lives . 
Many of my constituents have suffered as a result of the kinds of behaviour this will hopefully bring to an end . 
For example , one of the practices targeted by the legislation is prize draw swindles , where consumers and encouraged -- often via mobile phone text messaging -- to ring a premium-rate number for a prize that does not exist . 
-- Mr President , I voted for this proposal , but I have to admit it was a difficult call to make . 
In the end , I voted for it because I see it as giving the Commission permission to investigate the transfer of vessels to the tsunami region ; it does not mean , even with this vote , that they have to go ahead with it . 
I insist that the Commission take the FAO advice before taking any action ; that they only respond to requests from tsunami countries and do not impose the transfer of vessels on any particular country ; and that they carry out a full cost/benefit analysis of shipping boats to the tsunami region , as opposed to building boats in that region . 
Today , we have given the Commission the green light to change the regulations . 
In particular , my own amendments , which were supported by a large majority make it clear that this should be only part of a wide range of necessary measures to aid the fishing communities around the Indian Ocean . 
The challenge laid down by the European Parliament is to the European Commission to change its mind and accept our amended proposal , and to the Council of Ministers to follow the strong lead which we have given in this matter . 
It is important that money for debt cancellation comes from new funds and the diversion of existing resources for development . 
To this end debt relief must be treated and reported separately from aid . 
Developing countries must be encouraged to use funds saved from debt repayments to finance core services such as health and education without which it will be practically impossible to achieve the Millennium Development Goals . 
In this context it is important that the poorest countries are not subject to undue pressure to liberalise their service sector in reciprocity for EU trade liberalisation . 
However , I am not convinced that the programme presented to Parliament strikes an appropriate balance between being ` pro-business ' while continuing to promote social inclusion and sustainable development . 
Economic , social and environmental policy do not appear to be addressed in an integrated way . 
For example , I am concerned that no proposals to promote equality of opportunities between men and women or to reduce economic disparities between regions are included in the work programme . 
I also find it unacceptable that the Commission does not foresee any legislative action in the priority area of climate change . 
. -- Mr President , it almost beggars belief that , in 2005 , we can still have tinpot dictators seizing control of countries based on nothing more than being the sons of their fathers but , sadly , that is reality in Togo . 
The European Community needs to support the democratic forces which , I am glad to say , exist inside Togo . 
As Mrs Trautmann has said , we need to try and work with Mr Natchaba to establish a situation whereby he can return to his country and organise fair and free elections . 
The idea that this is popular is killed by the fact that , on seizing power , the president has had to ban all public demonstrations for two months . 
He has closed eight television and radio stations and has made sure that every other voice of opposition is oppressed . 
This is a coup in every sense of the word and we should show no sympathy for it . 
. As a measure to complement the ` single European sky ' I welcome this proposal . 
It is obviously imperative that we take this opportunity to retain the ability to revise and reinforce safety aspects of air traffic management , to facilitate the establishment of cross-border functional airspace blocks and to create a level playing field for training services across the European Union . 
In addition to this , I support the Linguistic requirement that Member States must ensure that air traffic controllers can demonstrate the ability to speak and understand English to a satisfactory standard as a means to the ends above . 
I also welcome the mutual recognition of air traffic controller licences contained within this proposal , confirming the principles established by the case law of the European Court of Justice . 
Mr President , not for the first time I should like to ask you to communicate to the President of Parliament a request for clarification of the rules and procedures for these ` catch-the-eye ' sessions . 
I know you can not call everyone , but I have a very particular viewpoint from Scotland that has not been heard . 
To follow up on Mr Newton Dunn 's question , it seems clear to me that the public are now well aware that criminal activity is international and that criminals move freely across EU frontiers . 
What they are not so aware of is the coordination that takes place to try and counteract that . 
I therefore urge the Commission to look into bringing the different information together on a regular basis , whether through Europol , Schengen , or the chiefs of police ; and look into making public what can be safely be made public , in order to demonstrate that we are acting as a Community to tackle international crime . 
Commissioner , your reply was very encouraging . 
The Chinese authorities appear to make the right noise about tackling counterfeit goods . 
Would it not be worthwhile for the EU to offer to place customs and other investigative officers in China to assist the Chinese in tackling this ? 
I suspect China will say ` no ' because I still do not believe it is serious . 
However , it is an offer that we should make to test whether China is willing to respond to our initiatives . 
Mr President , I also wish to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report . 
Commissioner Mandelson made it clear this morning that the Commission 's aim in bringing forward this revision of the GSP was to ensure better targeting of trade preferences to benefit the least developed and most vulnerable countries , simplify the GSP system and make it more transparent , improve access to the GSP system by improving the rules of origin and encourage good governance in the countries that benefit from the system . 
All the rapporteur 's amendments take the Commission proposals further in that direction and I hope that the Commissioner will look closely at each of the amendments the rapporteur has proposed . 
We have also had good cooperation between the Commission and Parliament in bringing forward the implementation date for this measure . 
It was originally to come into force at the end of the year . 
It is now planned to come into force from April onwards , to respond to the tsunami crisis . 
While the volume of aid given to the countries affected by the tsunami has been welcomed , this measure will do more for them in the longer term . 
By providing them with an opportunity to trade more easily with the European Union , we are giving them a hand up rather than a handout . 
I should to emphasise that , although that would allow them to qualify under the statistics , they will still have to meet the good governance clauses by signing up for the appropriate international agreements , so this would be a carrot to Pakistan to sign up to important international social conventions . 
The Council presidency 's plea this morning for somebody in each Member State to take responsibility is well judged . 
Moreover , President Barroso , you will need political will in the Council and support in this House for your reforms , neither of which is yet fully evident . 
Europe 's right-wing parties have still not yet embraced the central fact of globalisation that the nation-state and the free market are no longer compatible . 
Free movement of goods and capital without similarly free movement of services and labour is economic nonsense . 
And the left is still riven by dissent over the role of the state in managing the economy . 
President Barroso , Europe 's Liberals and Democrats will remain steadfast and united in support of your agenda , provided you recognise that the forces which spur growth and create new jobs lie in entrepreneurship and in the determination to make a great product or provide a great new service . 
The real competition in the global economy is to attract investment capital to back new ideas and create new jobs . 
Unless the single market can be made to work properly , we will lose that battle . 
Liberals and Democrats do not deny that government has a role in economic management . 
When a better educated , wealthier , more assertive public has developed ethical concerns and a higher sensitivity to risk , and when companies value intangible assets like corporate reputation , there is a demand for active and responsible government . 
For that reason we welcome your REACH proposals , for example , or a commitment to bringing aircraft emissions into the emissions trading system . 
Government too has a role in protecting citizens from fraud or market failure and levelling the playing field not only between businesses , but also between business and the citizen . 
That is why my Group supported the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive in the last mandate and will support proposals for greater legal certainty in cross-border transactions in this Parliament . 
To us , getting the balance of economic policy right seems fundamental . 
We therefore have serious reservations about , for example , a poorly prepared software patents directive , which seems of more benefit to multinationals than to smaller inventors . 
Greater intellectual rigour needs to be applied if Mr McCreevy 's proposal is to secure a majority at second reading . 
Patents should protect innovation , rather than stifle competition . 
Without a coherent intellectual property regime across the European Union , we will create few new European companies . 
Finally , a single market in services must be the centrepiece of the Lisbon Agenda , to provide growth and jobs . 
But Liberals and Democrats recognise a big difference between the functioning of a market and the discharge of a public service , and the Services Directive will need some changes to reflect that . 
President Barroso , you recognise that if Europe 's growth rates continue to lag , we will not provide the same degree of security , prosperity and opportunity for our citizens as others enjoy . 
We will support your efforts to kick-start Europe 's economy but we are not blind to the weakness of measuring economic progress only in quantitative terms . 
For example , cars that are safer , more fuel efficient and easier to dismantle after use reduce economic growth in classical terms but create another type of good . 
We will expect your Commission to be open to such ideas . 
To improve the economic vitality and the social and environmental health of our continent simultaneously , the Lisbon Agenda must combine flexibility , fairness and farsightedness . 
If it does , the Burghers of Lisbon will be proud to have lent their name to Europe 's success . 
Just as Henry the Navigator guided Europe 's pioneers in the discovery of new lands and great wealth , so you can guide us in the discovery of similar economic success . 
For example , the budget for the parliamentary dimension of the WTO should cover all expenditure for the European Parliament 's delegations to WTO Ministerial conferences as well as expenditure relating to the organisation of the Parliamentary Conference on the WTO 
I fully subscribe to the Lisbon goals of strengthening employment , economic reform , enhancing competitiveness , completing the internal market , Social Cohesion and environmental protection as engines of a sustainable growth-orientated economy . 
In order to build a broad coalition for change , the Lisbon Strategy must be universally understood as a strategy whose benefits will be widely shared and developed in cooperation with all relevant socio-economic actors , which looks for labour markets which promote both dynamism and security , which seeks to modernise , but not to weaken , social security , and which sees high social and environmental standards as part of Europe 's competitive model . 
I believe that to revitalise the Lisbon strategy is essential in order to address the failure of living up to the goals of March 2000 . 
I welcome this opportunity to support the idea of national action plans as a way of implementing the Lisbon Strategy , with every government nominating a minister to coordinate action . 
I very much welcome the action programme that the Commissioner has outlined today . 
We should do everything possible to assist the Libyan people . 
However , the treatment by the Libyan authorities of the five Bulgarian nurses and the Palestinian medical worker makes it very hard to take seriously Libya 's proclaimed desire to rehabilitate itself within the international community . 
We should remind ourselves that those people were in Libya to assist the Libyans ; to provide better healthcare for Libyans . 
They have become scapegoats for the inadequacies of the Libyan health service . 
It is clear that the infection at the hospital , as indicated by Mr Van Orden , already existed . 
It was spread because of poor hygiene and because of the re-use of needles . 
A number of experts has testified that the nature of that contamination makes it almost inconceivable that it was spread deliberately . 
Rather than simply facing up to the facts , the Libyans have turned tragedy into a further tragedy and into a farce . 
First , they tried to blame the CIA and the Israeli intelligence services , saying it was a conspiracy to undermine Libya . 
I very much support what the Council has said and would ask it to continue to pressurise the Libyan Government to come to its senses , to release these people and to become a normal part of the international community . 
Would the President-in-Office agree with me that the decision by the now ex-Prime Minister of Kosovo , Mr Ramush Haradinaj , to resign and to cooperate with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia is a welcome sign of the growing political maturity in the country . 
The response of the ethnic Albanians now is absolutely critical . 
It has been reported that 1000 extra KFOR troops have been deployed in Kosovo because of the fear of rising tension . 
If Kosovo can overcome this problem in the next day or two , I think that will augur well for a final political solution to the Kosovan crisis and allow the UN administration to withdraw . 
Does he agree with that ? 
If there has indeed been a relaunch of transatlantic relations , then that is good news for the Middle East peace process , because there can be no peace in the Middle East without both EU and US involvement . 
Will the Council take advantage of this new climate to up the tempo of meetings of the Quartet and the road map to peace in the Middle East , in order to lend greater impetus to that process ? 
Mr President , it is difficult to overstate the importance of this debate in the current hand-wringing over the Lisbon Agenda . 
The reality is that if we do not invest in research and , more importantly , involve the business community in that research process , we will not upscale our economies . 
The pan-Union coordination adds a clear value . 
So it is all the sadder that the Commission proposals -- which I broadly support -- are under threat from my own UK Government , with its insistence on cuts to the EU budget and with little detail on where the axe should fall . 
I support the broad thrust of this report and would add my words of congratulation to the rapporteur , with the rest of the House . 
I have some reservations about the details and I hope that our amendments will strengthen the report tomorrow . 
I would , in supporting the Commission , particularly stress the importance of simplifying the procedures in FP7 , because the message I have heard loud and clear from Scotland is that the administration and the bureaucracy have been major off-putting factors in previous framework programmes . 
From what the Commissioner has said this evening , I think that message has been received loud and clear , although I look forward to receiving his actual proposals . 
A 33 % reduction in price support for sugar , a reduction in the quota and an end to export subsidies for sugar would all send a powerful signal to the Doha Development Round . 
That would be good news . 
My colleagues are also wrong about farmers , because their proposal would not provide certainty for farmers and would give them false expectations of the support they can expect in the future . 
Finally , the 60 % compensation scheme is equivalent to full compensation and the Commissioner should keep reiterating that . 
Hiroshima was devastated by an atomic bomb sixty years ago this summer . 
Including the effects of radiation poisoning , the five-year death total was over two hundred thousand , almost two thirds of the city 's population . 
In May the Nuclear Non Proliferation Treaty ( NPT ) comes up for another five-year review by those countries that are party to it . 
The treaty regime is weaker than it has been since its entry into force in 1970 . 
If this vital security instrument is to continue to be effective , it is highly important that the central bargain be revived by the NPT nuclear weapon states , led by Washington , at the review conference . 
But it did not happen . 
Today there are only two more states with nuclear weapon programmes than there were in 1970 ... 
I welcome this report 's emphasis on achieving the Lisbon objectives through various means . 
It is vital to improve framework conditions for private research , since in it is estimated that the EU needs 700 000 new , adequately skilled researchers by 2010 if the target of 3 % of GDP investment in Research and Development ( R [ amp ] D ) is to be reached . 
Furthermore , to reach this target , two thirds of the investment in research should come from the business sector . 
The Kok report on the Lisbon Strategy has also identified `` increasing Europe 's attractiveness for researchers and scientists '' and `` making R [ amp ] D a top priority '' among the policy areas requiring urgent action . 
I agree with the report that making Europe more competitive requires appropriate financial means . 
There should be sufficient coupling at European and national level to ensure a uniform quality of funded projects . 
I also welcome the call to increase support for R [ amp ] D and innovation in renewable energies following The International Conference for Renewable Energies ( Bonn , June 2004 ) . 
The Labour members voted against this resolution for a number of reasons . 
Firstly , we think it is bad for the World Trade talks because it undermines the seriousness of our commitment to a genuine reform of the world system . 
We voted against it because we think it is bad for farmers : farmers need certainty above all and this resolution would not provide that . 
We voted against it because we think it is bad for the European food industry : half a million European jobs depend on industries that use sugar and they will be facing higher sugar prices than the rest of their competitors throughout the world . 
And we voted against it because we think it is bad for the developing world . 
We will still be taking badly needed markets from developing countries . 
We hope that Parliament will think again and that when the Commission brings forward its draft legislative resolution we can have a different debate and a different approach to this issue , because the resolution we are adopting today simply does not solve the problems of the European sugar market . 
Mr President , I would like to concentrate on the issue of sole stocks . 
This regulation aims to recover sole stocks in the Western Channel and in the Bay of Biscay . 
It is crucial that we act to counter declining fish stocks , but it is always important that our response is proportionate . 
The Commission proposal combines tough rules for setting total allowable catches with a scheme to limit fishing effort . 
The amendments proposed in Parliament 's report would replace the Commission 's proposal with one that aimed to manage the stock via agreed rules on setting catch limits . 
I welcome the amendments in the report by Parliament 's Committee on Fisheries . 
The Commission 's proposal was based on the premise that the sole stocks were in crisis and needed recovery plans . 
The amendments proposed in the committee 's report recognise that management action , rather than drastic fleet cuts , is more appropriate for this stock . 
I also strongly support the Committee on Fisheries ' recognition that the management action for this stock should be developed with the involvement of regional advisory councils and other stakeholders . 
I welcome the aim of these proposals to help reduce waste and provide information for consumers . 
These proposals reinforce good practice already established in the UK where around 75 % of the two million cars and vans reaching the end of their lives are traditionally recovered or re-used . 
However , I have some reservations about the benefits of applying the design standard to existing vehicle types , in which case the economic and administrative burden may outweigh the environmental gain . 
The number of doping incidents over the 2004 Olympic Games again demonstrates the need to combat this very real problem . 
The Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe provides an appropriate legal basis to draw up and implement Community action in the field of sport . 
Therefore we have the legal means to protect not only increasingly pressurised sport professionals , but also the countless minors and amateurs vulnerable to doping in sport . 
I particularly welcome the call for the Commission to support a sustained information campaign in order to establish an effective prevention policy . 
It is also important for Member States and the Commission to co-operate closely with the World Anti-Doping Agency ( WADA ) , the Council of Europe and the World Health Organisation ( WHO ) in a way which enables the European Union to act effectively with regard to the prevention and control of doping . 
I thought we worked well as a committee to reach a reasonable and balanced template for the future of Europe 's financial markets . 
The industry and all three European institutions have undergone a stressful five years of legislation in this area , and the most stressful stage , for the industry at least , is probably still to come . 
The result is certainly not perfect , and it certainly does not please everyone . 
However , in our Group we are all agreed that breathing space is now required to see these 40-plus directives properly implemented by transposition into national legislation , and to build up experience of their operation . 
Furthermore , the industry needs time to digest these often substantial changes to its ways of doing business . 
This will inevitably take time : it would be foolhardy to rush into further changes until we see how these work out in practice . 
After completion of the few remaining Financial Services Action Plan matters , there may be one or two other areas which need legislation -- asset management may be one . 
Nevertheless , the Commission and this House need to be very careful that any such legislation really is necessary , justified by cost analysis and can be delivered usefully . 
Whenever possible , non-legislative improvements would be our preferred route . 
The Lamfalussy process has a key role in ensuring that the FSAP legislation works for the benefit of both financial services companies and their customers . 
It is vital that transposition be implemented on-schedule and accurately , and we will expect the Commission to keep an eagle eye on this , because we will be keeping our eagle eye on the Commission . 
We will not hesitate to use our rights of challenge under the Lamfalussy process if we see the need . 
We have made major strides towards an integrated European financial services market . 
In time this will be of great benefit to our economic prospects by providing the competitive capital market that Europe needs and which we are striving to achieve . 
There are not many other projects that will contribute as much towards achieving the Lisbon goals . 
It is now our duty to see that these matters are honed and perfected as they come into operation . 
It is now our duty , the duty of the Commission and the duty of the Member States to see that the financial services industry is given our full support in providing the essential ingredients of a successful European economy . 
That was my point , Mr President . 
Mr President , I have an oral amendment to paragraph 38 , which will also replace Amendment 1 : ` Considers that Member States have long and diverse traditions in consumer protection ; notes that the [ one word deleted ] call from part of the financial services industry is for minimum harmonisation , whereas certain practitioners , notably the banking industry , advocate targeted harmonisation in order to achieve a true level playing field ; therefore , urges the Commission to organise a discussion about the fundamental structure of the EU financial services market , bearing in mind consumer and practitioner interests and European global competitiveness ; ' . 
Mr President , Scotland has found it very difficult to meet even the 1976 Bathing Water Directive . 
The main problem for us is agriculture and the run-off because of high rainfall , especially on the west coast . 
Rainfall in these parts , which face the Atlantic and the prevailing weather , can be anything from 80 to over 100 inches -- i.e. 250 cm -- a year . 
This is not unnatural , it has happened for centuries , and the next tide will quickly clean things up . 
It would be perverse and severely damaging if Parliament , led by the Green brigade who , sadly , know so little of the real world were to remove the ` sufficient ' classification in this new directive and condemn Scotland 's beaches to the loss of their coveted and deserved status among the best and most beautiful in Europe . 
Therefore , you may wonder why I seek to comment on it now . 
That fact should not be allowed to obscure what was a very comprehensive piece of work by the Commission , making sense of a 25-year-old document that had undergone multiple revisions . 
It has been recast into a document of some 300 articles , which is now comprehensible and which can , therefore , be better implemented . 
Nothing in this requires any change of legislation in any Member State . 
However , it makes sure that all the accession treaty additions etc. are incorporated into one document , which is useful . 
As an individual who has frequently been critical of the European Commission , it is reasonable on this occasion to record our gratitude and to compliment the Commission officials who have undertaken this task and done it extremely well . 
This would lead the public to this conditions had deteriorated when in fact no change had taken place . 
. I welcome this vote to give support to the sisters of Robert McCartney in their fight to bring to justice his killers . 
Their courage gives real hope for change and reconciliation in Northern Ireland . 
I wonder whether the Commissioner shares my frustration at the Janus face of Member States on this issue , where on the one hand they complain about lack of knowledge by their citizens of EU activity , and then on the other hand frustrate the European Commission in terms of distributing information . 
Now that the British general election is out of the way , will the Commissioner hold new talks with the British Government to discuss how factual information can be distributed in the UK about the work of the European Union , and in particular about the contents of the Constitution ? 
Your list of ten points of action in terms of promoting information about the Constitution are very welcome . 
It seems to me there is one omission : there is no provision for rebutting false information . 
It is absolutely urgent that we establish across the whole of the European Union , using the network of Commission offices , a system whereby we can respond immediately when myths and lies are told about the European Union , and particularly about the content of the Constitution . 
There is no point in responding 20 days or two months later , because then the myth has become stuck in reality . 
You need to respond instantly . 
Thank you , Commissioner , for your very comprehensive answer , particularly as I must confess that the question -- I do not know if it was my office 's fault or that of someone else -- was intended for Mr Verheugen and was aimed more at the industrial policy side of things . 
However , you very kindly covered a lot of these issues . 
In your own field , Commissioner , are you convinced that there is enough flexibility in the existing structural funds to provide regional aid , if appropriate , social fund monies for retraining and -- slightly outside your area -- research and development money , if a viable use can be found for the plant ? 
He has struck an admirable compromise between the needs of a flexible labour market and the protection of individual workers from the damage long hours can do to their health and safety and work-life balance . 
Annualisation of the 48 hour week will allow businesses to cope with seasonal fluctuations , sudden increases in demand or crisis situations . 
The employee will be guaranteed reasonable hours over the whole of the year . 
Ending the individual opt-out will give protection to those workers who under the present Directive face pressure to sign away their rights . 
If a clod be washed away by the sea , Europe is the less ' . 
That was in 1624 , yet for over 300 years peoples and states continued to wage war across our continent . 
Tribalism and hatred are Europe 's ugly legacy . 
If we had not learned it earlier , the ` war to end all wars ' should have shown us the futility and the trauma of organised warfare . 
Our awakening from that nightmare led to the League of Nations , yet we continued to distil the fruits of scientific advance into the firewater of the weapons of mass destruction . 
By the time World War II ended in Europe , on 8 May 1945 , more than 40 million people had lost their lives . 
A cynic might say that 20th century Europeans were slow learners . 
It took two bloody wars and a continent in ruins to teach us that a united Europe is worth more than the sum of its parts . 
Not all of us were able even then to realise our aspirations for peace and freedom . 
While for most Europeans May 1945 marked the liberation of their countries from Nazi tyranny and the beginning of a new path to freedom and reconstruction , for those who found themselves on the wrong side of the Iron Curtain , one tyranny was quickly replaced by another . 
A further two generations were denied the liberty we now enjoy . 
As a student at the Karl Marx University in Leipzig in 1976 , I saw this at first hand . 
Let us rejoice that Europe is united in peace and that we can sit together in the same debating chamber with a set of common supranational institutions of government deciding on matters of mutual concern . 
It was the imperative of dependence that brought the European Union into being and saw the Soviet bloc finally crumble . 
We started with coal and steel , the building blocks of post-war Europe ; we built the common market , the basis of prosperity undreamt of by my parents ; we made the single currency a reality for 300 million Europeans at the dawn of this new century . 
As we mark the 60th anniversary of a lasting peace , we see that Europe has come a long way , through gradual steps to build solidarity between our peoples . 
There is no doubt that the European Union has been a success : have become part of our common legislative and social fabric . 
But there is no guarantee it will always be that way , and we stand now at a watershed , represented by the constitutional treaty . 
Can we move forward and consolidate this unprecedented era of peace , stability and prosperity , or will it melt before our eyes and be replaced by a new national rivalry and brinkmanship ? 
A columnist reminded us last week how thin is the veneer of civilisation , how weak the voice of human conscience when tempted away from the rule of law and respect for our fellow human beings . 
This is the challenge before our Member States as they are called upon to ratify the Constitution . 
A peaceful and prosperous Europe was always based on the premise that strength lay in convergence and shared mandates . 
Cooperation has grown from trade to encompass social policy , employment , immigration , justice , policing and foreign policy . 
The revolutions in central and eastern Europe have lifted from our shoulders the yoke of Yalta , but we are confronted with new challenges . 
The challenge , for example , of feeding , clothing and housing a growing world population , while more and more are pushed into migration by war or hunger or sheer desperation . 
The challenge of dealing with a hole in the ozone layer , melting ice caps , rising sea levels and climate change . 
None of these challenges can be faced by our countries acting alone . 
To provide the security , prosperity and opportunity which our fellow citizens expect government to deliver , we have to work together . 
And work together , too , with the United States and Canada , to whose people we owe so much and whose values by and large we share , not only to confront with them common challenges but to make them feel more comfortable with a new and more powerful Europe . 
Europe has the potential to be a beacon of hope , a model of tolerance , diversity and stability , in a world where these attributes are still rare . 
We can insist on a bill of rights , or we can see our rights eroded . 
We can ratify the European Constitution and put our faith in democracy and accountable government , or we can continue to leave too much power in unelected hands . 
We can hold out the hand of friendship to the dispossessed , or cocoon ourselves in an illusory haven of prosperity . 
We can welcome Romania , Bulgaria , Turkey and the western Balkans and accept that Europe should be plural and diverse , or continue to treat each other with hostility and suspicion . 
Convergence is not just an ideal , it is an economic and political necessity . 
It is time to move beyond national self-interest towards greater convergence . 
Cooperation is the way forward , enabling us to face global challenges together . 
Europe has a leading role to play in the era of global governance . 
It is a stabilising force and a benchmark for other countries and peoples . 
But history should teach us not to be an instrument in supporting authoritarian regimes . 
Liberals and Democrats view with concern the direction of some of the Council 's policies : to undercut the Americans in some downward Dutch auction of human rights standards would be an affront to the dignity for which Europe 's people have fought so hard . 
Just as no man is an island , no country is an island either . 
We are joined together in our custody of a fragile world and our stewardship of its inhabitants . 
Let Europe exemplify the dignity of difference and grasp the challenge . 
I thank the President-in-Office for his reply , which was as helpful as it could be in the circumstances . 
However , it is clear to me that Israel has moved from protecting state security to persecuting this man . 
I hope the Council really will keep up the pressure on Israel to release him . 
Mordechai Vanunu has been elected rector of Glasgow University in my country , and we would very much like to see him able to come to the university and take up his role . 
Therefore , I hope the Council will continue its pressure . 
I wish to press the President-in-Office on the final point my colleague made . 
It would send a very positive signal , if this matter was raised at the level of heads of state and government , and the final communiqué contained a reference to it . 
The Roma feel they are a neglected body within this European Union . 
This would send a good signal to them and would perhaps act as a lead , encouraging the Member States to take proper action . 
An alternative approach would have resulted in the EU being accused of being protectionist , it would have damaged our relations with China itself and , above all , it would have sent a very bad signal for the Doha Development Round . 
So his approach is correct . 
I should like to add one caveat , however . 
The news today that America 's balance of payments has surprisingly improved might be good news for America , but underlying that there is a clear indication that imports from China have dropped dramatically and that the decline in Chinese imports includes a 21 % reduction in textile imports . 
So , if the statistics and facts justify EU action , I am sure the Commissioner will agree that he will have to take that action and send a very strong signal to China . 
On other issues , I hope that the Commissioner -- and I was pleased to hear his comments on this -- will keep up pressure on China in terms of intellectual property rights . 
The Chinese justification that it is all too complicated , that the difference between regional , national and local structures makes it impossible for China to implement WTO rules , just does not wash because China can do it when it comes to protecting Chinese intellectual property . 
China should also be made to do it in relation to European intellectual property . 
It is our job to make sure , in the long term , that it sticks to those rules . 
However , the Geneva agreement merely set out a roadmap . 
The really difficult decisions are still to be made . 
The EU must show serious intent with regard to ending agricultural subsidies . 
Third countries must make concessions on market access for non-agricultural products . 
Pressure must be removed from developing countries as regards services and the so-called Singapore Issues . 
A successful agreement on world trade this December in Hong Kong could do much to reduce poverty and despair in the world . 
A more effective Communication strategy will do much to counter the Euro-myths propagated throughout the EU . 
. I represent Scotland , on the north-west frontier of our European continent . 
We recreated our Scottish democracy in 1999 with the establishment of the Scots Parliament , when it was reconvened by my party president and former Member of this House , Winnie Ewing , with the words : ` The Scottish Parliament , adjourned in 1707 , is hereby reconvened ' . 
So why am I raising the subject of Togo and the situation there within this House ? 
Because my internationalist party is appalled by injustice wherever it occurs , and it is up to us within this House to shoulder our global responsibilities . 
Since 1999 , other countries across Europe have rediscovered democracy . 
Ukraine , Georgia and others have looked to the EU for inspiration , guidance and support , as they have stepped towards democracy . 
I would refer you to our motion for a resolution and I commend it to you . 
Last month 's presidential election in Togo , on 24 April , has been marred by allegations of massive vote fraud , even including allegations that almost a million phantom voters were created , swelling the ranks of those eligible to vote by one third . 
The response of the EU to this , and to the resulting deterioration within Togo itself , is in marked contrast to the inspirational response of this House and our European Union to the situation in Ukraine . 
In a statement last Friday , our European Commissioner , Mr Michel , said that the EU would be watching to see whether Togo complied with pledges it made last year to respect human rights and public liberties . 
I have listened to the debate on the motion of censure with increasing disbelief . 
The issue at stake here is not who lodged the motion or the motives of the Independence Democracy Group , it is about whether the Commission President is under a duty to answer questions asked of him by members of this house . 
The need for continued reform of our and the Commission procedures is urgent . 
I deplore the motives of the Independence and Democracy Group , but their actions could have provided an opportunity to strengthen our procedures . 
By attacking them rather than the problem , the leaders of the groups have missed an opportunity today . 
It is vital we take steps to combat these crimes which have the power to undermine confidence in the EU 's financial systems , as well as notoriously close links with terrorist finance . 
I welcome the risk-based approach the Commission takes regarding the obligations for those covered by the Directive . 
This means the directive does not demand customer due diligence if the relevant financial transactions offer only a minimal risk of money laundering . 
In addition , the minimal risk of money laundering or terrorist financing also justifies the decision to exclude companies only occasionally offering limited financial services from the directive . 
Although money laundering is defined as a criminal offence with criminal law sanctions as a requirement , the directive should confine itself to just a ban on money laundering and terrorist financing leaving the Member States free to decide what punishments they wish to impose . 
If a better balance is to be achieved in gender equality then we must surely be working towards the same aim at each and every level . 
It is important that after their end-date of 31 December 2005 the work of these two programmes be supported so that worthwhile priority themes such as equal pay , reconciling working and family life and gender roles and stereotypes can continue to receive support . 
Therefore I agree with the rapporteur 's call for adequate budgetary provision in the new financial perspective for the period 2007-2013 for the purpose of financing the Programme relating to the Community framework strategy on gender equality and the Community action programme to promote organisations active at European level in the field of equality between men and women . 
I agree with the Rapporteur that it is in both our interests that Russia is integrated better within the European structures and there is a more common approach to the Countries covered by our neighbourhood strategy . 
However , if Russia is to be a Member of the WTO it must respect WTO regulations , in particular counterfeiting and piracy of goods must be stamped out . 
I share the disappointment expressed by the rapporteur at the seeming reversal in Russia 's democratisation and its disregard for some of the principles of the OSCE and Council of Europe documents . 
Mr President , I would like to draw the attention of the House to a golden opportunity for us to demonstrate relevance to the people of Europe : the G8 summit at Gleneagles in my country , Scotland . 
The contribution of this House could be signing the written declaration in my name on the aims of Making Poverty History . 
At this time of cynicism about the direction of the EU , it is an opportunity for us to march in step with the people of Europe . 
Too often , EU trade policies have been the cause of problems within the developing world , not the solution . 
We can change this mindset and give a lead which I believe would be appreciated by the peoples of Europe . 
If anybody from this Chamber wants to accompany us on our march to Make Poverty History , I would be more than happy to arrange it . 
Madam President , I welcome this directive , as it will primarily help energy users to reduce and monitor their electricity consumption . 
This measure will require companies to give energy consumers accurate information to allow them to regulate consumption , compare their consumption with a normal user in a similar building and in an ecologically efficient building , and assess the environmental impact of , for example , the CO2 emission levels of the energy they consume . 
For example , if you type in your postcode on their website you can find out who is your cheapest supplier . 
We all know that efficiency is absolutely essential . 
I hope implementation of this directive will be fast-tracked in Britain to make it easier for consumers to play their part in reducing energy consumption and tackling climate change . 
The directive will require the introduction of smart metering services that allow consumers to check at a glance how much energy they are using and how much it will cost . 
The new meters are obviously part of a package of measures that will also force energy companies for the first time to give individual consumers accurate and detailed bills , along with information about the environmental impact of their energy use . 
Climate change is one of the fundamental challenges facing us today and it is vital that we reduce carbon emissions across Europe to help meet this challenge . 
Progress in this area will require radical changes and investment decisions and behaviour by governments and individual households . 
This directive will enable people and businesses to assess accurately the environmental and financial impacts of their energy consumption and make informed choices on how to reduce such impacts . 
I fully support this directive and I welcome the work of the rapporteur . 
. As I did at the Committee stage , I supported today the compromise package as commended to us in the Skinner Report . 
Financial services make a very substantial contribution to the economy of Scotland , and re-insurance , whether directly or indirectly , affect Scottish-based enterprises and consumers . 
I welcome this proposal , which makes progress towards a Europe-wide system of re-insurance provision and regulation , as well as providing an opportunity to tackle the situation in the USA , where vast amounts of capital are tied up because of their collateral requirement leading to extra costs currently being passed on to consumers . 
The rapporteur is to be congratulated for his work on this document . 
. I welcome this report , and the comments of the rapporteur , on the importance of ensuring a healthy rural economy . 
Successful agriculture and forestry industries in Scotland are essential contributors to the viability of our many rural communities . 
The geography of Scotland means that many of our rural areas are Less Favoured Areas which require specific support measures . 
EU support can play an important part in assisting rural businesses to meet the many competitive challenges which they face . 
I hope that the future budget of the EU will provide adequately for rural development programmes , and that the UK and Scottish Governments will enable the full potential benefits to be realised . 
Mr President , there can be few subjects closer to a Scotsman 's heart than money and , as the only Scots representative on the Temporary Committee on the Financial Perspectives , I have watched the often Kafkaesque debates with much interest -- even when the real debate appears to be happening elsewhere . 
However , the time for debate , in this House at least , is almost over . 
It is the duty of this House to unite around this compromise so ably drafted by our rapporteur , because within the Council , where the real debate is taking place , the ` one per cent club ' , so ably led by the United Kingdom Government , continues to hold the whip hand . 
It is not the perfect compromise -- what compromise is ? 
However , we must send it to the Council with as strong a voice as possible . 
I echo Mrs Krehl , my colleague on the Committee on Regional Development , when she says that regional policy is the most successful and most visible aspect of the Union 's work to the citizens in whose name we carry out all our activities . 
The view of the Temporary Committee protects regional policy , and a strong European regional policy which must be promoted and protected . 
It grieves me that the United Kingdom shows every sign of continuing its mean-spirited , shortsighted stance within the Council . 
It is incumbent upon us in this House to send a clear message to the ` one per cent club ' today that we will not tolerate anything less than this compromise . 
We have heard high hopes from the Council that a deal remains hoped for . 
I myself would not put any money on it any time soon . 
It is for us to unite around the best deal possible . 
Commissioner , I recently had the opportunity to view the biometric system that has been introduced at Amsterdam airport to eliminate passport controls between Schengen and non-Schengen areas , which seem to me to work extremely well . 
Has the Commissioner had the chance to examine that system ? 
If so , does he believe that it could be spread , on a voluntary basis at the moment , to a network of European airports ? 
Beyond the gloom and pessimism about Europe 's future , last week 's rebellion by our citizens could turn out to have some benefits . 
Member States are confronted with the outcome of their own duplicity . 
If you claim the credit for everything that goes right and blame Brussels for everything that goes wrong , then sooner or later your citizens will rumble you -- and they have . 
When the VGE 380 was rolled out onto the tarmac last summer , we all cheered . 
But it has features and a name that are scaring away potential passengers . 
Some complain there are too many foreigners aboard , others that the new French and German specifications for the engines have weakened it . 
But nobody is completely satisfied with a vehicle in which strategic decisions are taken without proper public debate . 
That is a failing not just at EU level , but in our national debates too . 
For all our grand plans for transnational cooperation , we have failed to explain to people what we are doing at European level and why , and to address their fears about jobs , careers and a productive retirement in a fast-changing world . 
Europe is too secretive and too opaque . 
Too many decisions are still taken behind closed doors and without proper parliamentary scrutiny . 
Basic parliamentary prerogatives and formal opinions are ignored or dismissed , such as the opposition in this House to heavy-handed proposals on data retention or passenger data transfer . 
Is it any wonder that big projects like the Constitution are rejected , when even basic institutional respect is lacking ? 
The British Foreign Secretary has been accused of making funeral arrangements before the coroner has spoken , but he gave voice to what many are saying in private , that the Treaty in its current form is unlikely to survive . 
It would have been ideal to hear the opinion of all Member States . 
In future , any such ratification must be put to all European citizens at the same time . 
But these were votes to reject not a text , but the way our Union operates . 
Mr Schmit , Mr Barroso , we do not blame you for getting us into this mess , but we look to you for leadership in getting us out . 
Of course , there is a limit to how much a small Member State or the Commission can do . 
A huge responsibility rests on the larger beasts in the European jungle for the economic and social ills plaguing the Union . 
But since the Franco-German motor is clearly kaput , we want to see you building a new one . 
More than ever , Europe needs leaders with a sense of purpose and vision , who can inspire our citizens to maximise their potential and opportunity . 
If not you , then who ? 
Those three steps would help to rebuild confidence in the European project . 
At the European Council , you need an answer from Chirac and Balkenende about whether this Constitution will ever be ratifiable in their countries and if not , what kind of text might be . 
We need a treaty for a Union of 27 Member States , but in the meantime there is much you can do to rebuild on the basis of the current treaties and restore public faith in the European project . 
. Mr President , I should like to congratulate Mr Freitas on his excellent work on this report . 
As we know , it concerns the 2 billion dollar tuna industry . 
We all eat tuna and we are all familiar with the wide range of dolphin-friendly labels that appear on tuna cans and jars . 
These labels have , until now , been unregulated , confusing and often misleading . 
This initiative seeks to change that . 
The Freitas report shows why the governments of 15 countries in Latin America and Central America have joined with the EU and the US to support the Agreement on the International Dolphin Conservation Programme ( AIDCP ) . 
The eastern Pacific fleet targets large , mature yellow-fin tuna that swim beneath schools of dolphins , sometimes 20 000 strong . 
If any dolphins are caught in the tuna nets , up to half a dozen hardy fishermen with diving equipment jump into the nets to herd the dolphins to one end , where they jump to safety over the cork lines . 
Only when the last dolphin has been freed is the net hauled on board . 
There is no by-catch of any kind associated with this method of tuna fishing . 
Trained government observers are on board every tuna boat ; vessels are licensed only if they have no record of violations ; skippers must be trained and qualified ; and by utilising that exhaustive system , dolphin deaths in the eastern Pacific have been dramatically reduced from 350 000 per year in the 1980s to fewer than 1 600 per year at present . 
EU support for the AIDCP label has posed a significant threat to some NGOs , which have hijacked the international tuna industry and become its de facto regulators . 
One Californian NGO , in particular , has become enormously rich by receiving a payment for every can of tuna carrying its dolphin-friendly label . 
The fishing method that this NGO supports may well be dolphin-friendly , but it causes the death of tens of thousands of sharks as well as leatherback turtles and even young , immature yellow-fin tuna , which are tossed dead back into the sea . 
It is outrageous that this organisation now holds the international tuna industry to ransom , threatening to blacklist on their website any supermarkets that refuse to sell cans of tuna carrying their dolphin-safe labels . 
The AIDCP label received unanimous support in the Committee on Fisheries and I believe that it will be supported by the majority of Members of this House today . 
. -- Mr President , I support this report by Mr Freitas and think that the European Parliament should give a positive response to the report , the proposal for a Council decision and the conclusion by the European Community of the Agreement on the International Dolphin Conservation programme known as the AIDCP . 
I think that dolphins would vote for it if they could ! 
I also welcome the fact that the WWF and Greenpeace are supporting and promoting the agreement on the International Dolphin Conservation Programme because it is a legally binding instrument that consolidates the results of an effort of interested governments , the tuna industry and the environmental community that , in less than 20 years , has led to a dramatic reduction of the mortality of dolphins in the Eastern Pacific Ocean . 
More than 100 000 dolphins were killed in 1986 but thanks to this scheme fewer than 1 500 were killed in 2004 . 
The AIDCP has established two systems : the tuna tracking and verification system , and the dolphin-safe certification system . 
Many of us like to eat tuna and European consumers consume over 530 000 tonnes each year . 
Most consumers would like to know that the tuna we eat has not resulted in dolphin by-catch deaths . 
The accuracy of some supermarket dolphin-safe labels has been questioned and according to the WWF the AIDCP systems for tuna tracking and dolphin-safe certification together represent at present the only programme that can guarantee consumers that the tuna labelled as ` AIDCP dolphin-safe ' has in fact been caught without killing or seriously injuring dolphins . 
These outstanding results are obtained mainly through a system of independent observers on board , which is the only system that guarantees the coverage of 100 % of the fishing trips by large tuna purse seiners in the Eastern Pacific Ocean and a set of stringent technical and operative requirements . 
The new label which will be introduced in the EU now guarantees consumers that no dolphins have been killed . 
I urge colleagues to support this report . 
. -- Mr President , I echo the fine speech of my Group colleague , Mrs Isler Béguin , in stressing how important the timing of this resolution is to Azerbaijan as it faces elections . 
I visited the region last month with Scottish Parliament colleagues , because we are keen to reach out to these countries with our experience of social democratic and civic nationalism . 
In that region , the events in one country all too often have serious ramifications in another . 
In that vein , I would commend to you in particular paragraph 10 of the resolution and the reference to the fragile civil society in Azerbaijan , because that is the key to a long-term solution for the region 's problems . 
It is not for us to tell Azerbaijan , Georgia or Armenia how to run their affairs , but with the benefit of our experience we can reach out to a region that is looking to the EU for help , inspiration and perhaps even leadership . 
I hope this resolution will give an added impetus to the Union 's dealings with this troubled region and the positive experience that we can bring to its future . 
President-in-Office , if the Luxembourg presidency has failed your expectations , I hope you will not blame yourself . 
President-in-Office , Liberals and Democrats in this House applaud your attempts to keep the EU show on the road . 
You tried hard to strike the deals Europe needs . 
Your lack of success was not for lack of effort . 
Your final summit was doomed from the moment France voted to reject the Constitution . 
The triumphalism of the ` no ' voters , however , will be short lived . 
In Greek tragedy , actors often deepen their own plight while believing that their actions will help them to escape it . 
So is the case with the French and the Socialists who were their cheerleaders . 
Their votes will bring to bear the very changes they most fear . 
At least in Greek tragedy the audience is permitted to understand what is happening . 
That luxury is available to many of us only with hindsight some time after the referenda . 
I suspect that you , President-in-Office , through your passionate commitment to the European cause , which I welcome , were unable to stand back and look objectively at the impact on your presidency of the week of 29 May 2005 . 
Had you done so you might have looked upon that week as a defining moment in the history of a European Union that will never be the same again . 
Hence your final summit was characterised not by the pockets of resistance of which you spoke optimistically , but by a fight between two ailing dinosaurs , Britain and France . 
Unable to admit that national sovereignty is a luxury of the past , they persist in trying to impose their order on others . 
Britain seeks a British Europe rather than a European Britain . 
France is just as insular without the excuse of being an island . 
Both harbour a dangerous illusion , for there can be only one Europe , truly European . 
That Europe must have the necessary funding to function . 
The insistence by some Member States on one per cent of GNI would deprive us of the Lisbon investment , as indeed your final proposal might have done . 
It is perhaps better to have no agreement and to re-think both how we raise money and how we spend it , than to reach agreement at any cost . 
But to those who seek to use these setbacks to re-establish an iron curtain , I would quote Robert Schuman , who said in 1949 : ` I have no intention of drawing a geographical line of demarcation between Europe and non-Europe . 
There is another way of setting limits : that which distinguishes those who have the European spirit and those who have not . ' 
So do not allow this pause for reflection to be a period of paralysis . 
Go home and make sure you win your referendum . 
Then mobilise the other smaller states to prevent the prehistoric predators from destroying what has been built . 
All of these mark good progress for the Union , and you may well conclude that you are left with more than just an overflowing ashtray . 
As Aristotle taught us , we may not always achieve our goals , but it is our pursuit of them that changes the course of history . 
Madam President , for the first time in my life I find myself in the strange position of agreeing at least in some respects with Tony Blair . 
I believe he is right to call for a fundamental reform of the way the EU is funded , with particular focus on the common agricultural policy . 
It can not be right that in a Union of 25 Member States , 42 per cent of our budget goes to the CAP , while less than 4 per cent of our workforce work in agriculture . 
Nor can it be right that although the CAP cake has to be shared between 25 Member States , one country gets a gigantic 23.4 per cent slice . 
How can we tolerate a system that sees the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Food Safety , sitting in session here in Brussels , demanding quite correctly ever more draconian regulations on the sale and marketing of tobacco products that kill half a million of our citizens every year , while across the corridor the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is happily voting for an annual subsidy to Europe 's tobacco farmers of more than EUR 1 billion ? 
Reform , however , is needed across a much wider field than simply the CAP . 
The people of France and the Netherlands showed us that we have lost touch with our own electors . 
It was a valuable lesson that we would do well to learn . 
Our brave words about achieving the goals of the Lisbon Strategy , about facing up to the challenges of globalisation , about increased competitiveness and economic reform are never matched by brave deeds . 
Do we really believe that this will increase our competitive advantage in the global market ? 
Do we think this will achieve the goals of the Lisbon Strategy ? 
. Thank you , Mr President . 
Prime Minister , you take the helm of a craft lacking direction , wallowing in heavy seas . 
You have every opportunity to show leadership . 
For too long your country has been vulnerable to the caricature sketched 50 years ago by the musical comedy duo Flanders and Swann in their ditty ` The English are best ' , which lambasts the character of other Europeans and insists ` The English are moral , the English are good , and clever and honest ... but misunderstood ' ! 
Britain has moved on since then -- heavens , even England has moved on ! 
Modern , meritocratic Britain has a level of intercultural sensitivity not common to its forebears and your speech today reflects that . 
But one speech will not suffice to set aside years of suspicion . 
You need to show that Britain is of Europe , not just with it . 
The phenomenon we call globalisation is re-shaping our world view , as you say . 
It opens to humankind new opportunities , yet also puts new strains on our societies . 
The three biggest challenges we face -- Third World misery and the migration it generates , climate change , internationally organised crime -- all require supranational responses . 
You are correct , too , that there is a cognitive dissonance between reality and political debate , that we need to get the politics right and give Europe a compelling narrative . 
So let me give you three suggestions . 
First , Council transparency . 
Europe can no longer be built on secrecy and spin . 
If people do not understand what is happening , you can not reproach them for rejecting it . 
Change the rules of the Council of Ministers . 
The public has a right to know what is being decided in their name and by whom , even if they disagree . 
That is the nature of democracy . 
Second , parliamentary scrutiny . 
National parliaments do not need a European Constitution to scrutinise the European work of their ministers more closely , but they need to be engaged in a process of monitoring and holding ministers to account . 
The European Parliament must also be listened to if we reject draft laws for infringing citizens ' rights or exceeding EU competences . 
Third , public debate . 
This debate can not wait for the need to underwrite a treaty that governments have already signed . 
Did you go out and meet your trumpet-blowing people in your recent general election ? 
As President Borrell pointed out last week , the rejection of the Constitution was less about the text than the context . 
Last week called you . 
Show it . 
The EU will be leaderless for as long as its national leaders play to their public galleries . 
You will not secure support for supranational solutions if you claim the credit for common successes and blame Brussels for every ill . 
Stop referring to ` Europe ' as if it were a thing apart . 
Liberals and Democrats will back your presidency and your drive for better regulation . 
We will help you forge a Financial Services Action Plan to make money move more easily . 
We will support a single market in services if you protect proper public provision and if you heed our concerns for personal freedom we will tackle terrorism together with the Council . 
We also welcome a debate on the structure of a budget inconsistent with the competitiveness and innovation foreseen in Lisbon . 
Rapid and radical reform of rural spending can not credibly be contemplated , however , without co-financing the CAP to redress French and British budget imbalances . 
Prime Minister , I welcome your speech today . 
It offers the promise to our continental colleagues of a less perfidious albion . 
Heed the words of St Francis of Assisi , quoted on a similar occasion by one of your predecessors : bring pardon where there is injury and harmony where there is discord . 
That is the road to new respect for Britain and the European Union . 
Mr President , Prime Minister , it seems that French and Dutch voters have startled you into some attitude changes . 
Now all of a sudden you say that the EU needs modernisation and yet not so long ago you told us that this was what the Constitution was for . 
Now you find the agriculture funding package that you signed up to not so long ago unacceptable . 
Speaking of disasters for Scotland , your own line on the EU budget limit would end structural funding in Scotland at a cost of a billion pounds . 
While it is true to say that the EU institutions need reform , it is also true that euroscepticism has grown in Scotland because you have continued the traditional UK Government practice of selling out Scotland 's interests in cobbled together compromises . 
The best form of constitutional reform for Scotland would be to represent ourselves in the European Union as an independent Member State . 
Whatever the position of the EPP 's Prime Ministers , within the EPP Group there has always been a history of opposition to Bulgaria and Romania . 
Two months ago they moved to delay our approval of the accession treaties . 
More recently they tried to delay the appointment of observer MEPs and now they are trying to stop observers coming although you , Mr President , have already written officially to the presidents of those parliaments inviting observers . 
We all know the weakness of the EPP in those two countries . 
We know that the EPP Group in this House would appear smaller after the arrival of these observers . 
But it takes a unique combination of political cunning and willingness to destabilise things in those two countries to make such a cynical move now and I hope the House will reject it . 
Mr President , I , along with a quarter of a million people , marched through Edinburgh -- my home city -- over the weekend to protest against poverty in the developing world . 
Sadly , today we hear that a few hundred rioters are currently under the control of the police in Edinburgh and that they are intent on making trouble in my home town . 
I hope that the police will take firm steps against them . 
As you said earlier , it is our turn in this House . 
We must reclaim the agenda from these rioters , from these protesters . 
I would refer the House to the activities which will be taking place this week . 
I would urge colleagues to support them . 
I would ask you also to sign the written declaration in my name on ` Making Poverty History ' . 
At a time when expectations of politicians in general are running so high , I would urge colleagues to demonstrate and prove to the citizens of Europe that we are in step with them , as we were in step with them over the weekend , and play our part in making poverty history . 
Mr President having listened carefully to the various arguments presented during this morning 's debate , I would strongly urge members of this House to give their support to the 21 compromise amendments which would stop the introduction of software patents in tomorrow 's vote . 
If these amendments are not accepted then I and many others will vote against this resolution . 
This draft legislation works against the interests of European Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises ( SMEs ) operating in the software industry . 
If this legislation is adopted by the Parliament tomorrow it will stifle innovation and stifle vital European SMEs . 
The Parliament must vote against this legislation . 
We can not afford to stifle vital European SMEs . 
SMEs are the lifeblood of job creation in Europe . 
Copyright does everything that it should do . 
Software patents are not the way to go . 
Life + is the key instrument for the development , implementation , monitoring , evaluation and communication of community environmental policy and legislation . 
It will notably support the implementation of the 6th Environment Action Programme . 
We must ensure that a proper budget is established for Life + commensurate with its ambitious goals . 
In July 1995 , the Bosnian Serb army took control of the small spa town which had been declared as a UN ` safe area ' . 
Within five days 7 000 men and boys were brutally murdered . 
This was the worst case of genocide in Europe since the Second World War . 
A decade later and still the men who ordered the massacre are at large . 
The EU must do all it can to put pressure on the relevant authorities to capture and put to trial those responsible for this atrocity . 
In vulnerable regions such as the Amazon , Central Africa , South-East Asia and Russia more than half of the logging activities are illegal . 
The government of Brazil announced last year that the destruction of the world 's largest tropical forest , the Amazon , proceeds apace . 
In the 12-month period ending last August , farming and logging , much of it illegal , destroyed 10,000 square miles of forest . 
This was the biggest one-year loss since 1995 , when the Amazon shrank by about 11,000 square miles . 
Internationally the EU has committed itself to protect the last ancient forests and to fight the illegal exploitation and trade of timber through CITES , WSSD and CBD . 
In May 2003 the European Commission published the Forest Law Enforcement Governance and Trade Action Plan . 
I urge them to speed up implementation of this important initiative . 
The presence of observers from the Bulgarian and Romanian Parliaments can make a useful contribution to the preparations for a successful accession and I look forward to their arrival . 
Edinburgh and Scotland hosted the G8 Summit this year . 
The UK currently holds the Presidency of the European Union and Scotland wants this meeting to be in Edinburgh . 
We are used to welcoming hundreds of thousands of people to Scotland with warm Scottish hospitality every day . 
Now Ferguson 's -- one of the few remaining yards -- sees its future threatened . 
Mr President , as you know , all new orders for ships in the European Union have to go out to public tender . 
Ferguson 's recently lost a competitive tender to a company called Remontowa in Gdansk in Poland . 
I am raising this matter today because two new ships are out for tender and it is important that the next competition be based on a level playing field . 
Mr President , I ask you to join me in urging the Commission to complete its investigation as a matter of urgency so that we can know that this tender process will be on the basis of equals tendering for the contract and not with one company facing competition with one hand tied behind its back . 
Mr President , I echo the remarks of Mr Hughes : this measure has been used by the small-minded , anti-European factions within this House to whip up confusion rather than to legislate sensibly , as nobly demonstrated by Mr Helmer , who made a speech full of nonsense and half-truths , then left , presumably to sit in the midday sun somewhere . 
No serious person would question the desirability of protecting workers from skin cancer . 
In Scotland , despite our northern latitude , this is a serious and pressing issue . 
The question for us is whether the inclusion of sunlight within this measure would achieve it . 
The inclusion of natural light renders , sadly , the sensible proposals within this package unworkable , legally difficult to enforce and practically difficult to manage . 
The Scottish National Party is concerned that these measures , while laudable in aim , will not achieve the desired result . 
Rather , we fear that the inclusion of sunlight in this package will add to the burden upon farmers , fishermen , foresters , businesses in general and others , without necessarily achieving the desired health effects . 
I would add my own congratulations to our rapporteur for a very sensible and ambitious report . 
I would , however , take some issue with paragraph 21 of the motion for a resolution . 
I also warmly support paragraphs 10 and 11 , calling for an extension of the Media Plus Programme . 
This has demonstrated what a positive impact the EU can have . 
I hope the Commission will rise to our challenge and be as ambitious as we are . 
However I look forward to the day when this trade is eliminated entirely . 
In one instance recently , a Scottish boat was wrongly accused of using illegal fishing gear because the enforcement agency wrongly interpreted current rules . 
With dwindling fish stocks the collection of accurate data is critical if we are to have a sustainable Common Fisheries Policy ( CFP ) . 
Mining waste is currently covered by general waste directives , but some serious incidents involving quarrying and mine waste led to the Council to ask for a specific directive on mining waste . 
The only controversial issue is whether a new category of waste for this directive non inert , non-hazardous waste , for example , chalk and lime would be created . 
While this category does not exist in the landfill directive on balance I think there is a sensible case for this new category . 
In particular I support the rapporteur 's intention to better recognise the role of NGOs at local and national level in successfully implementing these aims . 
I hope that the Commission will regularly seek the views of those most closely involved in plans to implement anti-discrimination measures , and ensure that co-financing levels should not be so high as to discourage local networks from participating . 
In particular , this proposal contains much needed attempts to simplify and rationalise by combining specific action programmes . 
However , care must be taken that costs are actually saved , duplication avoided and more administrative clarity and transparency achieved . 
I also support the Rapporteur 's steps to strengthen Parliament 's role in monitoring the programme and increase its influence on implementation through measures such as a regular exchange of views with Parliament held by the Commission and an interim report evaluating the results achieved and the qualitative and quantitative aspects of programme implementation . 
I supported amendments which would require that labour standards at sites operated in non-EU countries be monitored , including at sites outsourced by EU companies . 
The ongoing drive towards low-cost imports should not be an excuse to continue utilising sub-standard production facilities with unacceptably poor working conditions and wages . 
It is clear to me that there is no long term future for European textile producers hiding behind a wall of protection . 
However , European textile manufactures deserve to operate on a level playing field and open access to our markets must be mirrored by similar access to third country markets . 
Similarly if EU producers invest in new designs and materials they deserve the full protection of their intellectual property rights . 
Madam President , everyone acknowledges the role aid can play in improving development , and President Barroso himself promised EUR 300 million more for aid for trade at the G8 Summit this year . 
In fact , we spend around EUR 700 million already . 
The Trade Committee believes that we need to bring more visibility to aid for trade , that we need to make it easier to mobilise aid for trade and that we need to send the right signal in advance of the WTO Ministerial Conference to be held in Hong Kong in December that we take aid for trade seriously . 
Therefore , in future years , if the political will is there , we will have the legal base to bring under one single heading the aid we already give for trade . 
This will be an important step forward in terms of being able to mobilise these funds in the future . 
Putting aside the United Kingdom 's individual position , would you agree that , in its capacity as the Presidency , it is making strenuous efforts to find consensus in this matter , by touring Member States and discussing with them the different objectives ? 
There is a wide range of views about future financing but , as I understand it , the United Kingdom , as a Presidency , is trying to be the honest broker and bring together these divergent views . 
Do you accept that it is making genuine efforts in that regard ? 
I support what the Commissioner has said on the information communication policy , which is laid out as a very clear and coherent attempt to communicate better with Europe 's citizens . 
I wonder whether she has had a chance to look at the preliminary draft budget to see what impact that might have on her ambitions ? 
Because , without joining in this blame game , it seems to me that the Council will complain that citizens do not understand Europe , but is it prepared to make the means available for the Commission to run a proper information campaign ? 
Madam President , on a point of order , Mr Frattini has been answering questions for well over 20 minutes . 
Should we not move on to the third part of Question Time ? 
Following the terror attacks in Istanbul and Madrid , nobody can deny that terrorism today is a serious challenge for Europe . 
My Group welcomes the commitment of the UK Presidency and of the Commission to improve policies to strengthen security across the European Union . 
We are concerned , however , that these policies should be measured , proportionate and value-driven . 
We do not agree with the President-in-Office when he said in London that the human rights of the victims were more important than the human rights of the terrorists . 
As Thomas Paine warned : ` He who would make his own liberty secure must guard even his enemy from oppression ; for if he violates this duty , he establishes a precedent that will reach to himself ' . 
Much as the public may dislike it , suspected terrorists have rights . 
They have the right to a fair trial . 
They have the right to be interrogated , not tortured , by the police . 
There should be no exception for third-country nationals . 
There is a worrying tendency in Member States to deport people considered to be threatening public order , national security or the rule of law , to countries where they may face torture or worse . 
It is deeply troubling when the tools of justice and public order themselves violate the European Charter of Human Rights and well-defined international standards . 
To suspend those values and invoke a form of summary justice would , in the words of the lawyer Cherie Booth ` cheapen our right to call ourselves a civilised society ' . 
The language of the war on terror leads too easily to the justice of Wyatt Earp and ` High Noon ' , a point illustrated by the tragic death of Brazilian Jean Charles de Menezes at the hands of the UK authorities on 22 July . 
Governments have been all too eager to exploit the fear factor in this matter . 
In Italy , stop-and-search powers have been given to the armed forces . 
In Germany , police surveillance in public places has been stepped up . 
In France , CCTV cameras cover the public transport system . 
Any of these measures in themselves may be justifiable but , in a climate of fear without proper democratic oversight and control , they foster insecurity . 
No wonder that faith-hate crime has risen across the European Union and many Muslims feel they are being criminalised . 
It would be particularly ill fitting for those of us who were teenagers in democracies in the 1960s -- sometimes called the ` freedom generation ' -- to deny our children the standards of justice for which our colleagues from central , eastern and parts of southern Europe fought so bravely . 
Liberals and Democrats agree with the UK Presidency that anti-terrorism measures need to be implemented fully and rapidly . 
Why are 7 of 24 instruments considered by Justice and Home Affairs ministers on 24 May still not implemented in all Member States ? 
Why are six unratified EU conventions still occupying ministerial time , when framework decisions could be more easily implemented and enforced ? 
Why have Europol and Eurojust not been given the capacity to operate ? 
Why has the EU 's antiterrorism coordinator not been allowed the cooperation he deserves from national capitals ? 
The Council sometimes laments Parliament 's objections to security measures that it wants to introduce . 
But the European Parliament would feel far more comfortable in agreeing to urgent measures if it was satisfied that the Council was operating in the normal framework of democracy . 
A framework decision on data protection to accompany data retention measures , for example , would overcome the understandable fears of many colleagues that rights are being eroded . 
A commitment to legislation in the first pillar , with transparent policy-making and guaranteed rights , would enhance the moral standing of Europe 's response to terror . 
A serious commitment to sharing criminal intelligence information -- perhaps the biggest challenge -- would be welcomed and supported by this House . 
The nub of our dilemma is that the State is the main protector of both our security and our liberty . 
If the European Union is to provide security against supranational threats , it must guarantee liberty supranationally too . 
President-in-Office , Commissioner , if you are prepared to work with Parliament in that kind of dialogue , you will have the full support of Liberals and Democrats in this serious issue of tackling terror . 
The goodwill generated by this however , could be lost if projects on the ground are not sustained . 
The Commission must maintain a careful focus on helping the victims of the Tsunami by not only spending money , but spending it effectively . 
The misguided attempt to include sunlight was a gift to the ultra sceptics , who enjoyed putting about such stories as `` Brussels seeks ban on sunlight '' . 
Of course our constituents should be aware of the health risks of over-exposure to the sun , but EU-wide regulation from Brussels is not the best solution , nor is burdening employers with yet another obligation . 
The responsibility for informing our peoples about the effects of sun on their skin should rest firmly with the member states and devolved governments . 
There is after all a marked difference in the climate between Scotland and Greece for example and therefore health advice would be best tailored to suit local circumstances . 
Owing to the splitting of the proposal , the common position is concerned only with the specific minimum requirements for the protection of workers from risks to their health and safety arising or likely to arise from exposure to optical radiation . 
This has led some to try and caricature this as the protection from sunlight directive . 
In my view despite attempts to ridicule the proposal it does strike a good balance between protectionism and over-regulation . 
This report makes it clear that self-regulation is good but insufficient protection for children against harmful content . 
The report calls for a variety of measures to improve protection including automatic filter systems for Internet access for children and for the Commission to organise an information campaign for all citizens on safer use of the Internet and a Europe-wide toll free helpline with information on filters . 
This issue is extremely complex but I hope in the light of the adoption of this report the institutions can cooperate to find continuing effective ways to protect our young people . 
It makes sense to improve the treatment of children by increasing the research , development and approval of medicines which are suited to the metabolism of the child . 
I regret that amendments tabled by my Group were not adopted . 
These would have made it a requirement of the approval mechanism to consider whether significant therapeutic benefit over existing treatments had been achieved . 
A decade or more after the USA , the EU is at last set to adopt legislation requiring the testing of pharmaceutical products for children as part of their approval process . 
These new rules should ensure that more drugs are developed for children and that they are administered in safe and effective dosages . 
In return for pharmaceutical companies carrying out mandatory clinical trials for drugs intended for use in children they will be given financial compensation . 
The financial compensation proposed by the Commission involves granting companies an extra six months Supplementary Protection Certificate , that is , a form of extended patent . 
This must be monitored to ensure that it does not lead to excessive profits . 
Fifty per cent of medicines used to treat children in Europe have not been tested and are not authorised . 
Every parent wants to have the peace of mind of knowing that a medicine used on their son or daughter is safe . 
These new rules would go some way towards guaranteeing this safety , which at present is not clearly established . 
I also strongly believe that there should remain with Member States a reasonable degree of flexibility , such as in setting turnover thresholds and applying reduced or zero rates of VAT . 
The aim of simplifying VAT is an admirable one . 
I support the various amendments striving to establish better cooperation between taxable persons and tax administrations , also those that help to improve cooperation between Member States ' tax authorities . 
The Rapporteur suggests to introduce a minimum limit of EUR 50.000 for exemption from VAT . 
The suggestion concerns only first 3 years of the activity of a newly established SME . 
This new lower bound of exemption contributes to SME 's brisker economic performance , generating more employment across the EU , further realising the Lisbon objectives . 
Mr President , I will be no exception in this debate in offering my own congratulations to our rapporteur and indeed the shadow rapporteurs . 
They have all worked very hard to produce this excellent piece of work . 
I rise briefly to offer you some Scottish experience , particularly in relation to paragraph 36 on the need for eco-labelling in sustainable tourism . 
In Scotland we have been operating such a scheme for some years now . 
The Green Tourism Business Scheme is operated on behalf of Visit Scotland by a commercial -- though not-for-profit -- company . 
It promotes sustainability , provides practical advice to businesses and provides a level playing field , a certification to ensure consistent quality among its 500 member businesses , all of which are good-quality tourist attractions . 
I believe it is a model that would work very well when rolled out to other countries across Europe . 
I believe it has much to commend it . 
A tourist industry focused on sustainability will focus automatically on quality , which is ultimately what the consumer in this modern age demands . 
In Scotland we have had some success in this , although we also have some lessons to learn from it . 
This report provides a framework for the sharing of best practice and it has our full support . 
President-in-Office , to give effect to your mode 4 proposals , which I welcome , would the Council consider encouraging the Commission to create a database for the whole of the European Union that companies and countries from outside the EU could access , so they could identify potential skills shortfalls and opportunities to provide services ? 
This would extend the benefits from such access to include poorer developing countries , as well as countries that already have good intelligence about what is going on in the European Union . 
-- In this question on openness and transparency I should like to thank the President-in-Office for his answer . 
However , there is also another question , about Strasbourg itself . 
We are the only parliament in the world that has no say over where it sits . 
Can the President-in-Office comment on whether the Council will deliberate whether we can have our meetings solely in Brussels and not have to come to Strasbourg ? 
I warmly welcome that last reply from the President-in-Office . 
Of course Croatia should not enter into negotiations with the EU until it complies with the International Criminal Tribunal 's conditions . 
But will he accept that this is only a necessary , not a sufficient , condition and that Croatia also has to address the question of the Krajina Serbs and other major issues before we can enter into detailed negotiations about membership ? 
There are so many Scots in the Chamber that I think , if we are going to have a common language , it should probably be Scottish . 
I am grateful to the President-in-Office for his reply and it goes some way towards answering my supplementary question as well . 
He appears to be agreeing with me that there is not a level playing field at the present time , causing this asymmetry . 
Therefore , what concrete proposals is the Presidency planning to improve the coordination between national regulatory authorities in order to ensure that there is a genuine , free and fair internal market for all operators ? 
The Scottish Parliament has complete competence in areas like Fisheries , the Environment and several other areas relevant to the Northern Dimension . 
Sadly , we have had little input to the development of this policy , though I do hope that that will change . 
We have much to contribute from our own experience , and much to learn as a West-Nordic nation . 
I today make a plea to the European Commission to remember us in their planning , and to the Scottish government to play a more active part alongside our neighbours Iceland , Norway and others . 
Mr President , I echo the comments of my group colleague , Mr Kusstatscher , concerning the many positive aspects of this report , which does a decent job of highlighting the paradox that exists in the developing world when it comes to tourism . 
I would hope that the Commission would view that debate and this one as two sides of the same coin , when looking to come up with a strategy in this area . 
I quite agree with the rapporteur that tourism can be a powerful force for good in countries in the developing world . 
However , I remember well , when I was working in India for six months , how very often the impact of tourism on local communities was negative . 
I suggest that one of the most useful things that we and the Commission can do to take this forward is to focus on sustainability and perhaps even the production of a code of best practice that companies can aspire to . 
We can be positive in this field . 
I look forward to seeing how the Commission will take it forward . 
It is appropriate to ensure that the Solidarity Fund rules clearly allow for aid to populations directly affected by natural disasters , and that funds can be released quickly on receipt of Member State requests . 
Although I oppose human cloning , I believe that there is merit in researching the potential for stem cell treatments for degenerative diseases . 
Unlike some Members I welcome this . 
Children of EU officials deserve a quality education in their mother tongue and the existence of the schools helps the institutions in the recruitment and retention of suitable qualified personnel . 
The Rapporteur is right to focus on two issues which the schools have so far failed to address , firstly , access and provision for pupils with special needs which must be improved , secondly , the need to introduce a more vocational curriculum and set of qualifications . 
The situation in Niger almost defies description -- a country of 12 million people afflicted on a regular , ongoing basis by all manner of natural disasters , compounded by domestic error and international indifference until it is too late , and by incoherence on an ongoing basis . 
It was hoped that the G8 Summit , which we in Scotland hosted , would take some brave steps towards providing an ongoing framework , perhaps giving the Commission a lead for ongoing , coherent , constructive engagement with countries like Niger . 
We were sorely disappointed , but at least the debt relief announced was a step forward . 
We in this House must play our part in providing a coherent framework and I look forward to working with the Commission on that basis . 
One example given by Amnesty International was the case of Zhang Rongliang , who was the leader of one of the largest house church networks in China . 
He was detained in his village ; the police searched every house in that village , confiscating any Christian material ; his wife and child have been in hiding ; he has been imprisoned five times for a total of 12 years , during which time he was severely tortured . 
This House has also raised the case of Tenzin Delek Rinpoche , the Tibetan monk , who was sentenced to death by the Chinese authorities in an unfair trial . 
He is now in prison for life , but no one knows where he is being held , and his family would like to know . 
Until China deals seriously with religious freedom , we will have to highlight human rights abuses in this House . 
We have to speak up for those who do not have the freedom to speak for themselves . 
I , too , welcome our new friends from Romania and Bulgaria . 
It seeks a fresh breeze to lift its sails . 
Previously , Parliaments looked to the Commission to take the lead : as the guardian of the Treaties ; as the motor of integration , the initiator of ideas . 
This Parliament must challenge the Member States . 
Is Germany ready to reform ? 
Will Italy deal with its deficit ? 
Will Tony Blair back up his fine words with full British participation in Europe 's projects ? 
And will Paris and The Hague show leadership of their people ? 
Now more than ever , Parliament and Commission must work together to rescue the European project , to unite the Union . 
Five years ago in Lisbon , the Member States agreed an agenda . 
Five months ago in Brussels , the Commission set out a new strategy for jobs and growth . 
How many weeks must we wait for consensus in the Council , and when we reach consensus , for the courage to carry it through ? 
But decisions to scrap directives and to improve scrappy directives are a process involving Parliament , and we expect a say in withdrawing or re-writing laws . 
I fear you will not agree the budget under Britain 's Presidency . 
But use your public tour of Europe , together with Mr Barroso , to get agreement in national capitals for the financing the Union needs . 
We need more champions like Airbus . 
We will not have those with a cap of 1 % . 
We need to invest in upskilling ; to provide for lifelong learning ; to boost research and development -- no way on 1 % . 
Commissioner Wallström , do now the tour you should have done in June . 
Set the agenda or the Member States will set it for you . 
Europe 's Constitution bears fine signatures of presidents and prime ministers . 
Yet some of our citizens declined to sign it off . 
Arguably the recipe is not quite right . 
Possibly , people suspect it was signed in bad faith . 
Certainly its signatories show precious little respect for the institutions they have established . 
For the present , it is in cold storage . 
So , yes , Mr Barroso , let us get the politics right , and getting them right probably means getting them centre . 
But , where the Constitution is concerned , do not rush to perform the burial rites . 
To paraphrase Mark Twain , rumours of its death may be exaggerated . 
Let us use this period of reflection to call Chirac and Balkenende before this House to tell us how they propose to proceed ; hold hearings with those who have not yet ratified ; confront the Member States with their responsibilities . 
Together , let us show that our Union meets the needs of its people : enhancing security without threatening liberty ; building the foundation for jobs without undermining solidarity ; gaining EU added value without diminishing identity . 
If this is our agenda , some time from now our institutions and our institutional plans should once again command from our citizens the support and dedication they deserve . 
Mr President , public transport is important to all our local communities . 
In Scotland , ferries provide an essential service to some of the European Union 's most peripheral and vulnerable communities . 
This week I will be welcoming a delegation representing the CalMac trade unions to the European Parliament , who will be meeting the transport Commissioner on Wednesday . 
Presently these ferry services are being put out to tender in communities where they are the sole mode of transport connecting island communities to the mainland . 
Why , then , are lifeline ferries being treated differently to trains , trams and metros ? 
There are no trains , trams and metros in Scotland 's peripheral island communities . 
The position of the Commission would appear to be contradictory and I urge the Commission to clarify its position . 
Mr President , I too should like to compliment Mr Radwan on the extremely able way in which he has steered this complex directive to this advanced stage . 
We all hope that the Council of Ministers will now be able to take the steps needed to make a first reading agreement possible . 
Surely the Presidency can make a supreme effort and undertake to reach a conclusion on the comitology issue to a mutually agreeable timescale . 
So much has been agreed on the complex , technical issues that it would surely be a shame -- in fact , an absurd embarrassment -- not to close the remaining gap . 
It is surely reasonable for Parliament to aspire to a role in the legislative process which is equivalent to that of the other branch of the legislature -- the Council . 
All that we ask is for the Council to assess that aspiration with dispatch . 
The industry needs timely legal certainty and will not readily forgive either of us -- Parliament or the Council -- if in the face of all common sense we allow this important directive to fail for what might appear to the outside world to be interinstitutional niceties . 
I now turn to international considerations . 
Almost every European banking , insurance and asset management business will be affected by this new regime and will have to shoulder the costs of adjusting their systems . 
In America , on the other hand , only the largest international banks will have to comply . 
The competitive benefits will probably induce at least some of their medium-sized competitors to adopt Basel II too . 
However , even the smaller European financial institutions will have to comply and bear quite substantial financial costs in so doing , while their American competitors , such as asset management firms , will not have to . 
How will the Commission ensure a level playing field for our financial institutions of all shapes and sizes in the global marketplace ? 
I sympathise with the Rapporteur 's view that international standards for the protection of refugees ( including the 1951 Geneva Convention ) should not be undermined and fully endorse the role of Parliamentarians in scrutinising the amendments proposed by the Council . 
Nevertheless , given the fast changing international climate , the need for some flexibility to be retained at the national level in the listing of ` safe third countries ' leads me to abstain on aspects of this report . 
It is clear that we need a fair yet workable approach to the management of asylum , one which is sensitive to the needs of those fleeing political persecution , whilst guarding against possible abuse by others who do not have a legitimate claim . 
I therefore welcome the steps taken by Council towards an integrated approach to asylum policy and look forward to further constructive proposals in this sensitive area . 
Mr President , the European Parliament showed its desire to give special assistance to remote and peripheral regions when it voted in July on a major package of cohesion policy measures . 
However , in July , the Committee on Regional Development adopted the own-initiative report drawn up by Mr Sérgio Marques , in response to two Commission papers on a stronger partnership for the outermost regions . 
The report called for support for the outermost regions and for areas that are important to their development : agriculture , fisheries , competition and state aids , enterprise policies , services of general interest and services of general economic interest , taxation , customs measures , environment , energy , research , technological development , vocational training , transport , trans-European networks , new information and communication technologies . 
It is to public transport that I would like to turn . 
Public transport is important to all our local communities , and in Scotland ferries provide an essential service for some of the European Union 's most peripheral and vulnerable communities . 
Tomorrow I will be welcoming to the European Parliament a delegation from the CalMac trade unions , who will be meeting the transport Commissioner . 
As I said yesterday , presently these ferry services are being put out to tender in communities where they are the sole mode of transport connecting island communities to the mainland . 
Under the latest Commission proposals for land transport public service obligations , public administrations will be given flexibility over tendering processes and will be able to award certain services to in-house operators directly . 
Why are lifeline ferries being treated differently from trains , trams and metros ? 
There are no trains , trams and metros in Scotland 's peripheral , island communities . 
Given the Commission 's general position on the needs of the outermost regions , its position here would appear to be contradictory . 
I urge the Commission to clarify its position . 
Lifeline ferry services are too important to be ignored . 
It is an interesting case . 
I find it fascinating that when air stewardesses have colds and can not travel on an airline there must be immediate backup to cover staff shortages in those circumstances . 
So I wonder whether in this case the systems were just not in place . 
Only today another Scottish constituent , a Mr Duncan Thorpe , raised the question as to whether a delay of five hours or more entitles him to compensation . 
According to the Europa website , where there is a delay of five hours or more the airline must offer to refund the ticket . 
Yet the company that replied to my constituent stated , and I quote : ` Regulation ( EC ) No 261/2004 does not impose any obligation on carriers to offer or pay compensation when passengers are delayed ' . 
Can the Commission outline how it is monitoring the successful implementation of this directive ? 
Thank you for your consideration , Madam President : it is an important matter . 
Commissioner , will you look at the speech made yesterday by the British Chancellor of the Exchequer in which he lauded various achievements over recent years in developing parts of the United Kingdom ? 
The one thing common to all the examples he gave was that they had all been part-financed by the European Regional Development Fund . 
In that context , will you use that information in your negotiations with the Council to try to push up the amount of money available in the 2007-2013 financial perspective ? 
Commissioner , I would like to thank you for the robustness of your response . 
I wonder if you would agree with me that the Centre for the Study of Gambling in Manchester is a reputable academic institution that takes no moral position on gambling , either for or against . 
It simply looks at the psychological roots of gambling and its economic and social impact , and does so in an independent and academic fashion . 
Either the Parliament continues to engage with such forces of progress as exist in Turkey , or we can throw away all leverage we have . 
It grieves me that the Parliament has today thrown a series of unnecessary inconsistencies into our Report . 
Turkish recognition of Cyprus , respect for human rights , better treatment of the Kurds , recognition of the Armenian genocide and many other issues must all be dealt with , as Turkey is currently far from any acceptable standards . 
The only way to raise such standards is to continue dialogue . 
The delay in voting on this is setback but should not fundamentally alter Turkey 's progress towards membership of the European Union . 
The motion for resolution which was adopted shows acceptance that the question is not if Turkey will join but when and under what conditions . 
However , I hope that in these negotiations religious freedom will be highlighted . 
The right for someone to freely express their religious belief is essential in any democratic society . 
The First Step Forum , an NGO committed to religious freedom , will be visiting Turkey in the next few weeks . 
I hope that the Commission will listen to the outcomes of the delegation 's visit . 
International rail travel within Europe is growing in importance as an environmentally-sound alternative to air travel . 
I therefore welcome this report as a means to provide clarity and workability for business whilst protecting the interests of the millions of people across Europe who depend on rail travel both for work and leisure . 
The rights of rail passengers to compensation is a step forward and I welcome the Sterckx report . 
However , in light of recent air passenger rights legislation and its application , there is a need to be clear what rights passengers have and the compensation which they are entitled to . 
It is no use introducing legislation which is then not properly implemented . 
If we are going to be true to our constituents we require well implemented rules . 
Will you examine this , as the President-in-Office , to see if you can reassure all Member States that the arrest warrant may be implemented in full ? 
I worry that what he is referring to is every fishing agreement . 
For example , the Norwegian fishing agreement is vital for Scottish fishermen . 
He needs to be consistent in his approach . 
Obviously , the issue of religious freedom is absolutely critical in negotiations with Turkey . 
In the next few weeks the NGO First Step Forum will be visiting Turkey to investigate the situation on the ground and I will be happy to forward a copy of its report to the President-in-Office . 
Can the President-in-Office reassure me that religious freedom and expression thereof will be emphasised throughout the accession process with Turkey ? 
I hope that the Commission will look seriously at a number of possible initiatives which will help the fisheries sector . 
It is a source of deep regret that the Outcome Document from the summit failed to set new clearly defined targets and measurable indicators for each of the MDGs . 
It is now up the Commission and the Member States to take the initiative to correct this and to ensure that commitments are fulfilled . 
This would undermine those countries which already have a seat on the UN Security Council and thus is not in the British national interest . 
I welcome the recognition of the role of India as a regional power with global aspirations which shares a common vision with the EU on key factors such as democracy , multilateralism , trade , investment , development and many other issues . 
Given the country 's political and economical weight , the report rightly recommends that the EU spares no effort to progress quickly with the consolidation of the strategic association between the EU and India . 
However , in attempting to raise standards across the EU attention should be paid to the situation in individual Member States , such as the UK , which have good working mechanisms in place : Concerted government-led campaigns have contributed to an attitude of zero-tolerance among the British public with regard to drink-driving . 
It is therefore unclear that an EU wide harmonisation of speed limits and blood-alcohol limits would significantly benefit road-users in the UK at this time . 
On the other amendments concerning blood/alcohol levels , as the UK has more stringent legislation I prefer our own national legislation . 
Mr President , if this is a sign of things to come from the influence of the events in Berlin on this House , then they will do us no good whatsoever . 
Commissioner McCreevy is entitled to his opinions . 
What he said in Sweden is perfectly normal . 
My group would not support calling Commissioner McCreevy to this House . 
If we are serious about making the European Union work , then we owe each other solidarity . 
Solidarity involves allowing companies from the new Member States to bid successfully for work in the existing Member States and carry it out . 
That is part of getting our economies working together properly . 
That is the reason why my group will oppose calling Commissioner McCreevy to the House . 
My overriding concern on all regional policy matters is that the overall budget is still to be agreed , and the disastrous policies of the UK government in particular would see regional policy suffer most from their planned cuts . 
The Parliament has spoken with a strong voice in the Boge report , and we must ensure that this remains our view . 
It is not often that Parliamentarians have the chance to consider the underlying trends in the development of international politics but this report does so . 
I fully endorse the focus given by the Rapporteur to the challenges posed to EU industry by the rapid growth of the Chinese economy in both unskilled labour-intensive industry as well as high-tech domains . 
The paragraphs which draw attention to the growing problem of declining labour standards and unfair trading practices are particularly important in the run-up to the Hong Kong Ministerial Meeting of the WTO in December . 
By highlighting these challenges MEPs have voted for a constructive dialogue with the Chinese in which broader questions of the social and environmental impact of rapid economic growth are taken into account . 
It is for this reason that I welcome the resolution whilst emphasising the fact that the EU should seek to be in good relations with Iran as it is a potentially important partner for the EU . 
I share the view that Iran should reingage in a human rights dialogue with the EU whilst agreeing with the need to resist nuclear proliferation . 
Furthermore , I urge the EU to treat Iran with the respect that such a significant and important country deserves . 
It is imperative that an adequate and non discriminatory education is provided to all children of travelling communities regardless of the Member State in which they temporarily reside . 
It is of equal importance that the welfare and mobility rights of circus workers are protected through the use of short-term residence permits . 
However , it is a source of deep concern that the report includes the presentation of animals as I strongly oppose the use of animals in the circus . 
It is now both the Commission and the Member States ' responsibility to reflect on the point in question . 
I have a vested interest in this debate : Scotland , as an English-speaking EU member nation , should be -- could be -- leading the audiovisual sector within Europe in building a bridge to our competitors in the US . 
Sadly , while ample means of support exists on the EU side , this area remains a cruelly untapped potential for Scotland , as for Europe . 
Fortunately , the solutions are at our hands . 
I believe there is broad agreement in this chamber tonight on the broad policy thrusts , though , for me , the key policy areas are digitisation and distribution , and how the EU side can facilitate internal EU dissemination of our own talent . 
Sadly , however , I suspect that , ultimately , the arguments will come down to money and the mean-spirited arguments put forward by my own UK Government . 
I hope colleagues will unite around this report and send as loud and as clear a message to the Council as we can . 
A Europe which can offer security , prosperity and opportunity to its citizens , or one which , enslaved to the precepts of the past , slides further into recession ? 
It is therefore disappointing that those who have brought Commissioner McCreevy and President Barroso here today seem more interested in stalling debate than furthering it , perhaps for the sake of a few more votes in the upcoming Swedish election . 
Their political manoeuvring aims not only to derail the Services Directive ; it is aimed at one of the fundamental pillars of the Treaty : the free movement of persons and freedom of establishment . 
Mr McCreevy should not be made the scapegoat for their scepticism . 
As Commissioner for the Internal Market , he has a duty to defend it against its detractors . 
Nor should his comments be seen as an attack on the Swedish social model , which Liberals have defended for its ability to balance the brutality of the marketplace with a sizeable social safety net . 
They should be seen as an attack on the Swedish Builders Federation 's hypocrisy , xenophobia and protectionism . 
Laval bid in a fair and open competition for that contract , fulfilling public procurement criteria . 
The company has a collective agreement with its workers , just as Swedish employers have with theirs . 
What is more , when challenged by the unions over labour rates , Laval offered to raise its wages to the level agreed by the Swedish collective agreement . 
Finally , in a breathtaking lack of worker solidarity , that union prevented work from going ahead , which led to the company withdrawing from the contract and filing for bankruptcy . 
Now Latvian workers are out of a job thanks to the Swedish trade unions . 
Is that situation the fault of Laval , or is it the fault of a syndicate which puts protecting Swedish jobs ahead of the common market principles we have signed up to ? 
It is not by turning inwards and embracing protectionism that we will overcome sluggish economic growth and compete with China and India . 
The British historian James Anthony Froude once wrote that the practical effect of a belief is the test of its soundness . 
What better rebuke to the defenders of protectionism than this sorry affair ? 
Perhaps we should not be surprised that Liberal economic and social thought is in the ascendant . 
One reason is that more and more people are so painfully aware of the alternatives . 
You give a very factual and clear answer in terms of the current situation , but I should like to ask you personally , as Commissioner : do you feel that driftnets , with their indiscriminate catch , can continue to be used in European waters ? 
Has the time not come to end the use of driftnets in fishing ? 
Half a million EU citizens die needlessly each year from tobacco related illnesses . 
It is only through concerted action that we can fight against the tobacco industry and protect public health . 
I accordingly voted to end this practice . 
I am convinced this is the only way that the peoples of this region will be able to live in peace . 
There can be no security behind barriers . 
The Ombudsman has show diligence and forcefulness in dealing with complaints from the EU citizens regarding the activities of the EU institutions . 
He is proving to be a true champion of citizens rights to fair and open treatment by the Institutions . 
The situation today remains as grave as it has been for many years . 
The unseemly , shabby debate in the Conference of Presidents yesterday demonstrated Europe at its very worst . 
When we Europeans concern ourselves with tactics , internal politics , the considerations of our own domestic situations , we are weak and divided . 
If we remember our core principles of the promotion of democracy , human rights , freedom from torture and above all of dialogue , then we will speak with a loud and clear voice . 
This motion goes some way towards that . 
The motion is worthy and valid and I hope the delegation of our Parliament will speak with a suitably clear voice on this matter when it visits the region . 
Mr President , I should like to thank you for visiting the Scottish Parliament last week . 
Your words were much appreciated . 
However , there is an issue that many of my Scottish constituents are growing increasingly concerned about and that is the situation of the victims of the Pakistan earthquake . 
Already 80 000 people are dead and 3 million people are homeless . 
The UN needs USD 550 million to be able to do a decent job and it has just USD 135 million . 
Although the EU has given EUR 93.6 million as an aid package , we need to do more . 
I hope this House will back me in calling for more action to be taken to help the survivors of the Pakistan earthquake to rebuild their lives . 
We need urgent action before more people die due to the onset of winter . 
Mr President , my household is a fairly typical European household : we have a TV set in the sitting room , one in the kitchen , one in our bedroom and one for the grandchildren when they visit . 
We subscribe to Sky Digital by satellite , which costs around GBP 40 -- EUR 60 -- a month , and we pay our TV licence for the BBC public service channels . 
Even though there are hundreds of digital channels , we will be able to view only one digital channel at a time on all these sets because we have only one viewing card . 
At the moment , while my wife watches ` Extreme Makeover ' and our grandchildren view the cartoon channel on digital , I can still get the news on one of the five analogue channels . 
After the switchover -- which is only two or three years away now in the UK -- we will be stuck with only one channel at a time unless we pay for extra decryption boxes and cards . 
It is essential that the Commission ensure that the digital service providers , such as Sky , allow multiple-channel choice in each household at reasonable cost and that they do not make the multiple choice that digital can offer so absurdly expensive that it can not be availed of . 
I am delighted to see this proposal to grant the same conditions to the athletes taking part in the 2006 winter olympics and the paralympics . 
While I am not in favour of the EU having competence over Social Security provisions , I do believe that more could be done to facilitate the portability of certain entitlements . 
For example , disabled people are effectively denied their right to free movement - to seek employment for example - because the level of support currently provided may not be available in a new location . 
This is one of many issues which require to be addressed . 
The report will assist with the simplification of regulations concerning social security schemes across the EU . 
Its purpose is also to complete the simplification of procedures on receiving medical care abroad by extending some of those modifications to the identical procedures regarding benefits for accidents at work and occupational diseases . 
This does not appear to be the result of over fishing but linked to environmental factors . 
It is clearly important to know the precise cause be it pcbs , global warming or fish diseases . 
We need this information not just so that action can be taken to protect eel stocks but because of the wider environmental concerns and problems this might highlight . 
Today I also supported amendments which sought to make social and environmental reporting obligatory and supported the kind of reform of the CAP which would `` make poverty history '' . 
It is important that those who are disadvantaged by globalisation are assisted to adapt to new circumstances . 
This applies to citizens of the EU as well as countries and citizens throughout the world . 
It is therefore pleasing to see this report recommend a number of internal and external policy actions . 
Of course , we must also safeguard the welfare of European farmers and the security of Europe 's food supply , though this is compatible with a more sensible Common Agricultural Policy , the status quo is untenable . 
The impact of globalisation has positive and negative consequences . 
We can not forget the 20 million people unemployed in the EU at the moment , nor the fact that one in five children in the EU lives on the brink of poverty . 
We have a responsibility in this House to deal with these issues . 
Madam President , I am glad that Question Time is being extended to 8 p.m. because it is all too easy for the time allotted to it to be reduced , as has happened so often in the past . 
My point of order concerns my own question , No 69 , which I tabled specifically because Mr Mandelson was scheduled to address the House and take questions this evening . 
It is about the WTO , yet inexplicably it seems to have been listed as a general question . 
Could you explain why ? 
I welcome what the Commissioner said about keeping Parliament informed . 
Will he specifically commit himself to keeping Parliament 's delegation to the negotiations in Hong Kong fully informed as the WTO talks develop , so that it can play an active part in those talks and serve as a conduit for relaying information to the public to ensure full transparency ? 
I am pleased and relieved to hear the Commissioner 's response because I have been lobbied by European retailers who have invested considerable money in Asia , have improved health and safety conditions and working conditions in Asian countries , and are bringing economic benefits both to Asian workers and to European retailers . 
Would the Commissioner agree that it would be quite wrong if those companies were caught up in any anti-dumping duties ? 
Yet after two years and eight months of war , the deaths of countless Iraqis and over 2 000 coalition troops , it is clear that life in Iraq is little better than before . 
It is difficult to know whether the persistent presence of coalition troops under these conditions is a help or a hindrance in the restoration of normality . 
I fear I detect an air of complacency in the Council 's statement today and surprising optimism from the Commission . 
There are even signs that Sunni Arabs are moving into politics and preparing to contest the election , such as the formation last week of the National Public Democratic Movement in the province of Anbar . 
Nonetheless , Europeans have a number of serious concerns . 
There are signs of widening instability in the region . 
Evidence of gross human rights violations , including torture and the systematic use of arbitrary arrest , has badly damaged the coalition 's standing . 
That has helped recruit many to the insurgents ' cause . 
The European Union must demand a UN inquiry into the use of these banned weapons . 
Second , yesterday 's revelation in sections of the media that of the more than 35 000 Iraqi civilians detained by the coalition , only 5 % have ever been brought to trial and many have been denied legal counsel . 
What kind of example are we setting ? 
Third , the European Union Member States need a clear exit strategy . 
If we want to stop violent insurgents continuing to gain at the expense of moderate Iraqis , what is needed -- and what the Blair-Bush alliance has always lacked -- is a clear end-game . 
We must talk to the Arab League , the Iraqi authorities and other Middle Eastern governments with a view to establishing the terms and timing of our departure that will leave Iraq a more stable and secure place . 
President Talabani has already made it clear that the Iraqi people are , and I quote , ` looking forward to the day when we can say goodbye to the forces of the coalition ' . 
Europe must work towards that goal . 
Mr President , I heartily endorse the comments of my group colleague , Dr Lucas , on the UK Government 's fairly patchy record on seriously tackling climate change . 
However , if the Council is looking for some ambition , then it could do worse than to carefully examine and adopt Mr Wijkman 's report . 
The fact is that we need a step change in the way we debate climate change , particularly among the public . 
We must start with our own actions , because those are the actions we can control best . 
We need to realise that if we embrace the challenge , we can profit by our own example . 
Renewable energy is the key plank of the solution . 
My own country , Scotland , could lead the world in clean , green renewable energy . 
In the case of Scotland , this is because the United Kingdom controls energy policy and remains wedded to a nuclear agenda , which I believe offers no long-term solution . 
We in this House can play our part in this step change on renewable energy and the debate on climate change , and we must unite around Mr Wijkman 's report . 
The Commission can play its part by prioritising renewable energy in the FP7 Programmes . 
Many of the passengers who died at Sharm-el-Sheikh did not know they were going to be flying an Egyptian airline called Flash Air nor that this carrier had temporarily , in 2002 , been subject to restrictions by Switzerland because of safety concerns . 
Passengers have a right to be informed of the airline operating their flight regardless of where in the Community the service starts . 
Air travellers should be well informed prior to travel about their prospective flight , particularly if the actual carrier is not the one originally indicated at the time of reservation . 
This proposal takes us in that direction . 
Slovakia has committed to the closure of Units 1 and 2 of the plant by 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2008 respectively . 
The decommissioning process of the plant is an expensive one as it will last beyond 2006 and after the next financial perspective 2007-2013 . 
In light of this , the EU has agreed to extend pre-accession aid by providing financial support for decommissioning up until 2006 . 
Subsequently , an amendment was adopted to raise the budget from EURO 237 million to EURO 400 million . 
Despite being largely in favour of raising the budget , I believe the new amount of EUR 400 million proposed by the amendment to be excessive and I welcome the alternative of seeking non-EU funding in order to raise the amount of money necessary for decommissioning to take place . 
My own country , Scotland , as a Northern European country should be playing a more active role in this policy , though sadly even with our own Scottish Parliament we have yet to make our voice heard in this topic , so far . 
Citizens need to be informed and prepared . 
As we know from experience at Dounreay in Scotland , there is considerable improvement required in the handling of this dangerous , but necessary , process . 
Safety must be the number one priority , and the unsatisfactory state of preparations for decommissioning in most EU member states justifies the view that no new nuclear power plans should be built . 
Decommissioning is an important issues as there are some 50-60 nuclear power plants in the EU that will be decommissioned by 2025 . 
It goes without saying that nuclear power plants need to be shut down safely to protect people and the environment . 
A lack of finance for this process could cause delay and potential safety risks . 
All nuclear undertakings should have sufficient funds for decommissioning . 
The Commission is anxious to come up with a common framework , and in the longer term , to harmonise the methods by which decommissioning is financed in the EU . 
This report makes a contribution to that goal . 
With so many alternative technologies available , I believe that we must invest in renewables , which will leave no ecological legacy . 
Once a certain level of Green-house gas concentration has passed in the atmosphere , the whole system will undergo drastic changes . 
Disasters such as annual material damages due to extreme weather conditions resulting in millions of people left homeless will occur . 
Developing countries are likely to be the ones who suffer the most . 
The EU has reduced its emissions by 3 % below the 1990 level but more has to be done to reach the 8 % target agreed in the Kyoto Protocol . 
Although I agree that the EU needs to reduce its emissions to reach the target agreed in the Kyoto agreement , I find the report to be extremely optimistic considering the inclusion of more policy areas and the time limit and would like to see a greater sense of urgency . 
Mr President , normally I would complain that one minute is not enough to sum up a presidency in its latter stages , but not in this instance . 
UK Presidency : no progress . 
It is interesting that Mr Straw commented on the sparse attendance here and made an extremely limp attempt to be humorous about it . 
The fact is that most of my colleagues had better things to do than to listen to him give the same speech today that Tony Blair gave at the start of the Presidency and then repeated with minor variations just a couple of weeks ago . 
I had hoped , had Mr Straw still been here , to ask him the same question that Mr Alexander failed to answer when I put it to him directly a couple of weeks ago , but I will ask it again . 
Will the UK Presidency give an assurance that the interests of Scotland 's fishing communities will not be traded away in the interests of something more important to Whitehall in the mess of horse-trading it has stored up for itself for the December Council , and for the subsequent Fisheries Council , which will be almost the last act of the Presidency ? 
Would the President-in-Office not agree with me that a single market in the European Union , in which goods , people , services and capital can move as freely across European borders as they do within Member States , is a vital policy objective ? 
Would he agree with me that we should prefer tax competition between Member States to harmonisation of tax rates across the EU ? 
If he so agrees , can he see any justification for any limits or guidelines as to how much in the way of excisable products our citizens can take with them across our borders ? 
Would the President-in-Office agree that guidelines are precisely that -- guidelines -- and that if individuals can prove that what they are importing is for their own use then , even if they exceed the guidelines , they would not be outwith the law ? 
Also , would he agree that the guidelines exist to ensure that the single market functions in this area and that , if we did not have the guidelines , the very objective that Mr Purvis wants might be undermined , because the guidelines are there to stop the abuses that the President-in-Office referred to ? 
Would the President-in-Office accept that there are few , if any , individuals in Brussels stuffing their pockets with money ? 
Would he also accept that most of the complaints that the Court of Auditors brings forward concern systems and procedures , and not fraud in its narrow sense , and that if fraud does occur it is generally in donor countries or , indeed , sometimes in the Member States of the European Union ? 
Parliament will have to examine the package that now emerges from Council to ensure that the delicate balance between these objectives has been maintained . 
The proposal did not do enough to protect the welfare of animals and because of the way it was drafted was difficult to amend . 
I hope and trust the Commission will now come forward with a proposal that places profit below concern for animal welfare . 
I voted for this Report . 
I support its call not to lift the arms embargo on China until there has been a clear and sustained improvement in the human rights situation in that country . 
However , I do not believe it is right to treat China differently from other countries with an equally disturbing track record in protecting human rights . 
I would also like to see further debate on the possibility of converting the code of conduct into a fully legally binding code on arms sales . 
It sends a good signal to citizens that the EU will now be able to mobilise funds for the populations of regions struck by disasters . 
I welcome this report which reaffirms support for multilateral agreements on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and recognises the risks presented by the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction . 
Specifically , the report is a response to the EU strategy on WMD which I back . 
I am pleased that the Rapporteur agreed to the removal from his draft of references to specific member states . 
Through these measures the Commission intends to contribute to the gradual creation of a European Defence Equipment Market which is more transparent and open between Member States and which , whilst respecting the sector 's specific nature , would increase economic efficiency . 
I am pleased that the UK government has also welcomed the Green Paper as an important and timely initiative to open up a debate on the operation of defence equipment markets in Europe . 
The statement by the President of Iran that Israel should be wiped off the map must receive the strongest condemnation possible . 
However , the EU must resist the temptation to join with the USA in demonising Iran . 
. -- Mr President , I wish to begin by saying that , due to the previous debates over-running , my colleague Mrs Gill , who is chairwoman of the Delegation for relations with the countries of South Asia and the SAARC and author of this resolution , and my other colleague , Mr Moraes , have had to leave and they send their apologies . 
I speak on their behalf , as well as that of my own Scottish constituents , who have asked me to raise their concerns about the issue of how people are being treated after the devastating earthquake . 
It is of utmost significance that the European Parliament expresses its opinion on the Kashmir earthquake of 8 October . 
At the October part-session we marked this tragic event and people passed condolences both to the victims and their families . 
However , six weeks after this event that has destroyed the north-west region of Pakistan and India , the scale of devastation and trauma the earthquake has caused is still being realised . 
It is estimated that 80 000 people are dead , hundreds of thousands of people are injured and 3 million people are homeless . 
Aid workers have many problems to overcome , including landslides , bad weather , aftershocks and generally difficult terrain . 
People in the most remote areas appear to be the hardest hit , with very many not having received aid at all . 
These problems are made worse by the onset of winter and , therefore , it is imperative to get the right type of aid to those who need it . 
Although this is one of the most complex relief operations undertaken , it is no excuse for us not to do our utmost . 
The conditions in the temporary camps are far from encouraging and it is my understanding that the hygiene level in the refugee camps is intolerable and conditions are primitive . 
Kofi Annan has warned us that a second massive wave of death will hit hard as disease begins to spread amongst the survivors . 
Official estimates state that more than USD 5 billion are needed over a period of 5 to 10 years to restore the infrastructure of the region . 
We need to recognise that a standard relief package is not adequate for a situation as dire as this and we need to deploy the reconstruction phase immediately . 
Secondly , I strongly urge the Commission and the Council to follow the precedent following the tsunami of giving special trade concessions to assist the countries affected by natural disasters of this scale . 
At the very least they should implement the preferential GSP Plus scheme voted by Parliament this year to ease the situation . 
Finally , I applaud the opening of five points along the line of control on the border between Pakistan and Indian-controlled Kashmir . 
Perhaps some goodwill will come out of this tragedy . 
I call upon Member States and the Commission to ensure that we do not fail the vulnerable and traumatised . 
. -- Mr President , Madam Commissioner , today 's bomb attack in India-controlled Kashmir , which killed 4 and injured over 100 , underlines the urgency of this urgency debate and the painful political backdrop to what should be a natural disaster . 
The earthquake which devastated the area came on the back of decades of political violence , and now winter is upon them , when the infrastructure and reserves remain so fragile . 
This House is no stranger to the Kashmir issue . 
Our delegation some time ago reached out to investigate a long-term political solution . 
It has to be acknowledged that local political progress was rather slower . 
Let us please hope that the earthquake can focus minds on cooperation and dialogue . 
Their generosity of spirit sets us a challenge . 
It is now over to the politicians , and we in this House and the Commission can play our part in urgently coordinating aid , and in the long term , in helping find a viable political solution , because if there is not a political solution what other solution could there possibly be ? 
Perhaps there are some positive signs . 
Yesterday the opening of a fifth crossing across the line of control might be the start of a process that will lead to a peaceful solution . 
The immediate problems of the region are desperate , but as this resolution indicates , we stand ready as we must to help participate in a very long-term rebuilding . 
. -- Mr President , as Mr Coveney so eloquently described , the situation in Burma is not getting better . 
This House has passed enough resolutions for Aung San Suu Kyi to wallpaper the house that remains her prison . 
How does this resolution get serious -- because it is well past time that this House did get serious ? 
I refer you to paragraph 1 and our request that the UN Security Council investigate sanctions against this regime . 
We in the EU took this decision some time ago , yet EU companies continue to play a full part , in particular in the Myanmar Oil and Gas Enterprise . 
It is argued in the grubby world of realpolitik that implementing our own sanctions policy would leave a vacuum that would be only too happily filled by the Chinese . 
So it is appropriate and commensurate that sanctions be discussed and implemented at UN level . 
However , global politics should not be used as an excuse for our own double standards . 
We must enforce our own policy not just against the Myanmar Oil and Gas Company , but also against the Myanmar Timber Company and Myanmar Post and Telecoms , and I regret that they do not appear in this resolution . 
Diplomatic pressure has demonstrably not worked against this regime . 
Our application of economic pressure must be stepped up and we must work with the United Nations to bring this disgraceful situation to an end . 
-- Mr President , Mrs Gill said before she left that the PSE Group would back Mr Elles ' oral amendment because it was so similar to her own . 
This strategy is particularly important in the light of the EU 's commitment to achieve the Millennium Development Goals . 
Although hopeful I think the impact of the final statement is questionable . 
As we in Scotland saw just this summer when hundreds of thousands marched through the streets of Edinburgh in advance of the G8 summit in Scotland , the people of Europe expect action , not more warm words . 
Sadly , it becomes clearer and clearer that where the EU could contribute so much , we will continue our schizophrenic policies which only cheapen the image of the EU in the eyes of the developing world . 
It has featured films from Scotland -- with world-famous actors such as Ewan McGregor -- and lectures by people like Alexander McCall Smith , the world-famous author of the series . 
There is a also display in the foyer of the work of John Bellany , Scotland 's greatest living artist . 
But what would a celebration of Scotland be without good food and drink ? 
So tonight , to mark St Andrew 's Day , Scotland 's national day , we are hosting a reception in the restaurant , where Scottish beef will be available in the European Parliament for the first time in ten years . 
Mr President , through you I should like to thank the whole House for its participation in the Best of Scotland Week . 
We have had magnificent support from Members of Parliament , and I hope Members have enjoyed seeing just how good Scotland is and what great produce we have to offer the rest of the world . 
It is disappointing to see that no progress has been made in the past year . 
I stated at the time that we should , of course , have equality amongst the Member States , but also that we should be pressing the Council to make this principle a permanent feature of our hopes of achieving the Lisbon Strategy . 
I accept that it can be difficult to quantify the positive benefits in terms of job creation , but I am also convinced that suddenly reapplying VAT to labour-intensive services will have a negative impact . 
I know from personal experience in a small business in the construction sector that having to charge VAT at the full rate has an impact on consumer choice . 
In a significant number of cases consumers choose to go where VAT is not applied . 
This resolution , which all the groups have supported and which will be voted on today , is reasonable . 
This is the least we can expect from the Council if we are not to see a sudden shock being triggered by the end of this scheme , in which I would hope Member States can be encouraged to participate more fully so that we can build up data on the beneficial impacts , which I am sure can be quantified . 
. I voted in favour of sending this flawed proposal on Development Cooperation and Economic Cooperation back to the Committee . 
Since the Commission has now made it clear that it does not intend to come forward with a new proposal , substantial amendments will be needed to ensure that Parliament can maintain its right of scrutiny over the formulation and implementation of development policy . 
I believe it is vital that the European Parliament stand united on this issue in fighting for co-decision over the development cooperation policy , currently undermined in this proposal . 
I remain unconvinced of the merits for developing countries of splitting the development and economic chapters of this instrument , since the majority of EU development policy has a joint legal basis in the treaty as development assistance and external economic cooperation . 
. This regulation marks an important milestone for improving access to medicines in developing countries and it has my full support . 
It moves the EU beyond the current stalemate at the WTO regarding the granting of ` compulsory licences ' to pharmaceutical products to combat diseases which afflict millions of people in the developing world . 
Its adoption means that the EU , the world 's largest single market , can now provide not only the vital medicines needed by poor people at affordable prices , but can support the all-important development of local manufacture through the transfer of technology and know-how to public health systems in developing countries . 
I particularly endorse the attempts by the Rapporteur and Draftsman to extend the applicability of this regulation to non-WTO members , of which at least 40 are developing countries . 
Attempts to ensure that this new regulation can also allow for the important role of NGOs and UN agencies as providers of healthcare treatments also have my backing . 
. I welcome this proposed Directive on measures for the control of avian influenza . 
The proposed Directive aims to update EU measures based on lessons learned from recent epidemic scares and new scientific knowledge on how the disease spreads and risks to human health . 
The existing directive only establishes control measures against the ` highly pathogenic ' avian influenza viruses , i.e. those causing major disease outbreaks in poultry and that may also occasionally infect humans . 
However , there is evidence that these highly pathogenic viruses actually originate from the so-called ` low - pathogenic ' avian influenza viruses as a result of virus mutation . 
In order to prevent major avian influenza outbreaks , the new legislation would also establish compulsory surveillance and control measures against the low pathogenic avian influenza viruses that can be transmitted to domestic poultry from wild birds , such as ducks and geese . 
I fully back the aim of the new legislation as it will ensure that the most appropriate surveillance and prevention measures against avian flu are in place and that the health risks , economic costs and the negative ... . . 
. I welcome this report which looks at the previous national strategies of the introduction of the Euro and suggests how they can be improved and implemented in the Member States who may wish to enter in to the Euro zone , as and when they decide . 
I hope one day it will be relevant to the UK . 
. I support this report which agrees with the Commission proposal to extend the ` Annex K ' experiment of applying reduced rates of VAT to certain labour intensive services . 
I regret that the European Parliament has an opinion on VAT and that this issue keeps being blocked by the Council . 
The controversy surrounding this proposal is that if the Council fails to reach an agreement before the end of December , the experimental reduced rates system will cease to be legal in 9 Member States . 
This does not affect the UK and the UK applies their reduced rates through Annex H. Nevertheless , I would be disappointed if this scheme collapses . 
. This report which I support , develops the cross border VAT refund system for SMEs stating time limits for data to be received and monies to be refunded . 
I hope it leads to a reduction of the administrative burden on SMEs 
This means that richer players , such as the EU , should complete the necessary reforms to end distorting subsidies in agriculture and open our agricultural markets to products from poorer , agriculture-dependent countries . 
At the same time , no unfair demands should be made on the very poorest countries to open their domestic markets in other areas . 
There is a great deal at stake in Hong Kong , not least the need to demonstrate our commitment to encouraging trade between developing countries . 
South-South trading remains an important vehicle for long-term development of countries as 70 % of tariffs paid by developing countries are paid to other developing countries . 
Further , developing countries stand to make great gains in this area since trade between developing countries is estimated to be growing twice as fast as global trade and already represents some 40 % of developing country exports . 
. I voted for this resolution . 
Finally , although not an EU issue we must encourage Member States to do more to retain green spaces and playing fields in major urban conurbations . 
Mr President , I would be pleased to justify the request very briefly . 
My group had sought a motion on Hong Kong in view of the recent statements there by the government of the territory , which suggest that there is not to be any movement towards universal suffrage . 
I think the House will be aware of the extremely large demonstration that took place in Hong Kong ten days ago -- the Hong Kong people demonstrating in favour of universal suffrage and full democracy . 
This House has always supported them in the past and it seems to me a good opportunity to use this occasion to do so again . 
Mr President , my Group should like to propose changing the title to : ` Ethiopia and new border conflicts ' . 
As the House is aware , the problems in this region relate not only to Ethiopia but also very much to other border conflicts in the area , and it seemed to us that we might extend the scope of the resolution to take account of that . 
Mr President , at this time of looming budget crises and an increasingly depressing outlook for the Hong Kong talks , I would like to bring to the attention of the House an EU success story . 
To my mind , this demonstrates an interest in a European designation for our companies and I look forward to many more applications when citizens can individually register in spring next year . 
As a proud Scot , I would like to see a specific Scottish presence in cyberspace and I believe your own country , Mr President , has shown us the way with the ` puntCAT ' designation , which you so recently achieved for Catalonia . 
I look forward to us joining you in cyberspace , if not geographically . 
Mr President , in large measure I am pleased to support Mr Bersani 's report . 
He has been very helpful in agreeing compromises with us in the PPE-DE Group . 
I will , however , support a couple of group amendments to delete the last clause of recital I -- regarding unfair tax competition -- and paragraph 2 , also regarding tax competition . 
This proposal has nothing to do with harmonising tax rates . 
Only with a common tax base will it be possible to compare the relative fiscal advantage of locating or investing in a particular Member State rather than another . 
It will put pressure on Member States to provide an attractive tax environment for our businesses and to be efficient and careful in their public spending and budgeting . 
Some finance ministers might complain that it could limit their ability to provide particular incentives , for example for research and development . 
I would consider these to be consistent with a common tax base so long as they are fully transparent . 
They would be no different from varying general rates of corporate tax and should be permitted within clear and simple rules . 
I would ask the Commissioner to confirm that such clear and transparent tax incentives would still be permitted under any proposals he brings forward . 
With that clear understanding , I am pleased to support and congratulate Mr Bersani on his report . 
Nickel-cadmium batteries are particularly polluting . 
The compromise on nickel-cadmium is realistic giving a four-year breathing space before a full ban would be introduced . 
This would mean that the power tool industry would have time to introduce alternatives which are less polluting . 
I hope that there will be no headlines tomorrow saying that the EU bans power tools . 
-- Mr President , I wish to rise on a point of order , to offer the Presidency the opportunity to request that this debate be rescheduled for this afternoon . 
It is my understanding that the President-in-Office , the European Affairs Minister , intended to be with us this morning to discuss the preparations for the Presidency and yet the Presidency-in-Office did not intend to unveil its budget proposals until this afternoon . 
We have had the great pleasure of debating with one of the more assiduous and intelligent European Affairs Ministers who has come before this House . 
To engage in some kind of shadow boxing when we do not know what the proposals are seems to me to be really quite ridiculous and a waste of our time . 
The Presidency-in-Office is not here to be able to make this request . 
I hope it will be here later . 
Mr President , I hope you will seek an assurance from the Presidency-in-Office that it will have proper debate with us and outline what it intends to put to the Council as a budget proposal . 
It bore the signatures of one head of state -- President Chirac -- and five prime ministers : Balkenende , Blair , Persson , Schröder and Schüssel , four of whom , alas , are still in office today . 
Those same heads of state and government simultaneously demanded of the Union policies that they are not prepared to finance . 
They are Member State leaders who urge on the Union abroad but duck the debate at home ; leaders who will the ends , but not the means . 
Words like ` unacceptable ' rarely flow from the very moderate lips of the Commission President , who is reportedly one of Mr Blair 's best friends , but the Commission and Parliament must be at one in rejecting a budget that puts the concerns of the accountants above the broader view of the boardroom . 
I welcome Mr Barroso 's letter to the Presidency-in-Office about this week 's Council . 
For Liberals and Democrats in this House , no deal is better than a bad deal . 
Liberals and Democrats will not compromise Europe 's long-term interests . 
We will not be implicated in creating a two-tier Europe . 
What have the new Member States found in their brave new world ? 
A French President who tells them to shut up , a German Prime Minister who denies them their own tax policies and a British Presidency that moves the goalposts of solidarity . 
What we expect from the Presidency is a budget that puts long-term strengths and common concerns above individual satisfaction and personal gain . 
What it seems we will get is a proposal that will paralyse the Union 's priorities and satisfy no one . 
President-in-Office , 1.03 % of gross national income will not pay for our new policies or for enlargement . 
This House understood that when we estimated the future financial needs at 1.08 % of GNI , and that was a conservative estimate . 
What about money for challenges , such as security ? 
What about the ambitions of the Lisbon Agenda ? 
Five years ago , we said we would raise research spending to 3 % of GDP by 2010 . 
It has slipped down even further : to below 2 % last year , compared to 2.5 % in the USA and over 3 % in Japan . 
It is a budget that must provide for competitiveness and jobs for our young people . 
It is a budget that must pay for the social solidarity Europe wants . 
Parliament should reject any Council agreement that does our Union down . 
The Presidency has ambitions for a wider Council agenda . 
My group hopes that you will review the so-called war on terror . 
Complicity of EU Member States in warfare using depleted uranium and white phosphorous , detention without trial , torture and turning a blind eye to a clampdown on the freedom of millions in countries with whom we cultivate strategic partnerships debases our Union . 
Two days ago , the General Affairs Council called for a comprehensive approach to combating terrorism while respecting human rights . 
Liberals and Democrats want the Council to restate the European Union 's respect for the rule of law and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms , and to mean it . 
It saddens me as a proud Scottish European that the UK has represented Scotland so badly during the Presidency , and everything I have heard in this debate confirms my view that the UK has lost friends and influence on our behalf by this wrongheaded stance on the budget . 
The proposals announced today fail Scotland and they fail Europe also . 
I have no doubt that they will be comprehensively rejected by other member states and with 11 of those states smaller than Scotland I am more convinced than ever that there is no substitute for independence in Europe . 
Worse than that , I fear it will infringe liberty , and add unnecessary costs to business and consumers without actually making any of our citizens safer . 
This is a flawed proposal and the Parliament has done us a disservice today by adopting it . 
This report replaces a number of existing legal measures which provide the basis for current funding beyond monies provided by the European Fisheries Fund . 
This is in line with the policy of achieving better regulation and simplification of legislation . 
It sets out objectives for : expenditure , rules for eligibility of expenditure , the level of the Commission contribution and control measures . 
The key areas covered are : control and enforcement , data collection , scientific advice , governance of the CFP and international matters . 
The total budget foreseen for 2007-2013 is EUR 2 625 million , although the actual amounts , as the Commissioner has said , will depend on the EU budget negotiations . 
On control and enforcement , the aim is to improve the control of fishing activities in order to combat those fishing activities that are damaging the conservation of resources within and outside Community waters . 
This is to be achieved by providing Community financial support to Member States to reduce weaknesses in their fisheries control programmes and by assisting coordination of control measures , particularly via the Community Fisheries Control Agency . 
In the area of governance , the goal is to ensure the involvement of stakeholders at all stages of policy development up to and including implementation . 
In the area of international relations and the law of the sea , Community financial support is given for the conclusion of fisheries agreements with third countries , including partnership agreements , and participation in international organisations relating to fisheries or the law of the sea . 
This area is allocated the lion 's share of the budget -- EUR 1 592.5 million , of which EUR 1 522.5 million will go to fisheries agreements . 
In addition , some money has been allocated to technical and administrative assistance , including related staff costs . 
However , although the sums allocated by the Commission have been increased in committee , MEPs expressed concern that the allocation would not cover all the tasks required . 
Uncertainty over funding -- not least as we await a new EU budget -- poses the question of whether more funds can be made available , and if so , how they should be allocated . 
If more funding is not available , then the question of whether funding is appropriately allocated by this proposal arises . 
However , we need to ensure that the RAC areas are adequately supported . 
They are unlikely to generate sufficient resources of their own after the start-up phase and , indeed , the operating costs are certain to increase after the start-up phase , as the RACs and their working groups -- the North Sea RAC already has four of them -- progressively generate and implement new projects in support of management guidance to the Commission . 
Even in the start-up phase , the level of support to the RACs from the Commission diminishes progressively and steeply and continues to do so , year on year , as the RAC itself is expected to become increasingly self-supporting . 
Moreover , the secretariats of the RACs have only limited capacity to seek alternative sources of funding , notably from Member States . 
There is only limited opportunity -- or justification -- to pass the burden of cost on to the stakeholders -- members of the general assembly and executive committees -- especially as individual stakeholders -- such as NGOs -- seek to be involved in several RACs simultaneously , which incurs significant resource costs . 
It is vital to press for finance to be available for RACs beyond the initial five-year period . 
The financial support for the collection of data on the impact of fisheries on the environment in relation to adopting an ecosystem-based approach is also important . 
Almost 60 % of all the money goes on international fishing agreements , and it is only right that we make sure this amounts to value for money and is a fair development . 
Expenditure on agreements should be eligible for Community financing only if it has been recommended as value for money under an evaluation report on the relevant agreement . 
It is also important to develop control capacities of third countries to ensure sustainable fishing monitoring and control of fishing activities . 
If cuts need to be made in the Commission 's indicative budget , savings should be found from the international relations area , the largest budget area . 
Mr President , I must confess I rise to speak in this debate feeling a sense of anger , not least that it is 11.35 p.m. and many of us have missed our Christmas parties , but because we are here debating the eighth renewal of the fisheries agreement between the EU and the Seychelles , which would normally be considered a matter of simple routine . 
This agreement , as other speakers have said , was due to enter into force on 18 January 2005 . 
We are taking their fish without paying them a cent . 
We must remember that the Seychelles was one of the countries affected on 26 December last year by the tsunami . 
As we know , it was the fishing communities that were hardest hit by that disaster . 
Here we are , in the European Union , exacerbating the problem by allowing our distant-water European fleet to fish in their waters , yet a year later we still have not paid them one cent . 
How is it possible that this protocol was not submitted to the European Parliament until mid-October 2005 , 10 months after the commencement of the agreement and two weeks after the first payment was due ? 
The second instalment under this agreement is due next month and yet we are here at 11.40 p.m. still debating the text of the protocol , all our amendments to which the Commissioner has rejected . 
Are we here simply to rubber-stamp a Commission proposal when there is not even the slightest hint of humility , of acknowledgement of this delay and acceptance of the Fisheries Committee 's amendments ? 
The Council says it is anxious that Parliament should deliver its opinion as soon as possible . 
The new protocol was signed by the two parties on 23 September 2004 , and yet the Council did not request that Parliament should be consulted until 14 October 2005 , more than a year later . 
Steps should have been taken to ensure that this process was speeded up . 
It is grossly unfair to fish in the waters of the Seychelles or any other country while withholding payment from them . 
We have to ensure that this never happens again . 
Many of our citizens think that disability issues have been resolved because legislation in many of our countries has been in place for years . 
That is just not the case , the reality on the ground often does not match the aims of the legislative framework , and further urgent action is very necessary to ensure that all our citizens have access to travel . 
This is a good news story of the European Union taking action where Member States have not , and I am very very pleased to support it . 
The Common Fisheries Policy is untenable , illogical and has been an unmitigated disaster . 
More so , in our Union of 25 it will collapse under the weight of its own contradictions . 
We need to ensure that EU decision making is logical , the Common Fisheries Policy is not and puts those of us who are pro-European in the unenviable position of having to explain such an illogical and disastrous policy to our increasingly rightly sceptical electorate . 
The overwhelming support for Regional Advisory Councils ( RACs ) sends a clear signal to the European Commission that these organisations require funding after the transitional period . 
RACs allow local stakeholders to have a voice in decision making which affects their local interests . 
We must now call on the Commission to come forward with clear proposals to help RACs . 
The Caucasus countries are working hard to rebuild themselves and the EU can , must , play a role in their reconstruction and expand our area of peace and prosperity to cover them also . 
Many of the amendments of my group were sadly unsuccessful , though would have improved this report , which I believe comes too late in any case in order to influence the thinking of the European Commission on this vital matter . 
I am pleased that the UK Government has stated categorically that it will cooperate fully with the Council of Europe investigation . 
This report gives recognition to women in the fisheries sector and should be wholeheartedly supported . 
. Mr President , yet again we turn our attention to Ethiopia and yet again the situation has not improved and if anything got worse . 
Reports get worse and worse . 
We now hear that some eighteen thousand youths have been arrested in Addis Ababa and have been taken to an open field by the Dedesa River and imprisoned . 
It will need to be a very big field . 
The Ethiopian authorities must be put under strong pressure by us to reveal how many of their citizens they are mistreating . 
This motion for a resolution has a number of ideas as to how , but I would be grateful for your update , Mr Commissioner , on what your plans are and what action you will be taking . 
The government must disclose how many , particularly how many young people , have been imprisoned and how many killed . 
Also , what is the Commission 's view of the prospective establishment of an independent commission of inquiry into this whole business ? 
Mr President , Hong Kong achieved its reduced ambition of outlining a roadmap , and what that shows is that the road ahead is rocky and will require most of its leading drivers to make some sharp twists and turns . 
What we have is a development package which is not generous enough , a date for ending export subsidies which is not soon enough , proposals on GATS which are not flexible enough , and a NAMA formula which is not fair enough , as well as an acknowledgement of the need for special and differential treatment which is not yet clear enough . 
So we made progress in Hong Kong , but a lot remains to be done and the Commissioner will be well aware of the expression : ` a lot done , a lot to be done ' . 
I believe that most of the blame for what still needs to be done does not lie with the European Union ; it lies with our leading partners . 
I would like to add my thanks to the Commissioner and his staff , and to the Council under the British Presidency , which made great efforts to push many of these items along . 
I was glad to support this move and hope that we can move as quickly as possible to provide useful practical aid to the country . 
The report 's key issue is that EU citizens should be able to vote in national elections in Member States other than their own , provided they are resident there . 
I regret that the report was rejected as it was a worthy report . 
However , I abstained on the amendments to paragraphs 11 , parts one and 2 , paragraph 12 , parts 1 and 2 and paragraphs 13 , 21 and 28 as I felt that , at this stage , they went too far . 
However , this report , which is non-binding , attempts to explore ways in which each Member State can be encouraged to raise standards of equity and fairness , as there are instances of EU countries treating minorities poorly . 
The eventual rejection of this report does I think reflect a mature decision on the part of Parliament , much as I still believe that these issues need to be examined and will return to the house before long . 
Approximately 80 % of those cases are women and girls and 50 % are minors . 
I agree that data on trafficking is lacking and that there is a need for a more harmonised approach between Member States on how data should be collated and , equally , that data on children should be kept separate from the data on men and women . 
It is essential that prevention strategies address both victims and traffickers . 
The most vulnerable groups should be focused on , first by improving education and employment opportunities , fighting the problem of the feminisation of poverty , discrimination and inequality . 
Furthermore , more campaigns should be introduced , with a common EU logo and international help lines , and more information on legal rights to health services for victims in other countries must be provided . 
Finally , I agree that law enforcement must prosecute and strictly punish traffickers and fight corruption . 
This report demonstrates how cooperation will lead to better results than the individual Member States acting alone , and I am pleased to support it . 
While I have reservations about some of the sentiments contained in the report , I am of the view that the EU itself must take action to combat this problem , in conjunction with the Member States themselves . 
Mr President , I welcome Mr Fruteau 's reports and I would also pay tribute to the way he has gone about his work . 
It would be fair to say that we do not have identical views on the reform of the sugar regime , but I would like to think that we are now much closer at the end of the process than we were at the beginning . 
Like the rapporteur and previous speakers , I think it is a pity that the Council chose to reach a political agreement in advance of the debate in this Parliament . 
I think it shows a lack of respect for this House . 
It is not as radical as the 39 % that the Commission proposes , but I think it brings us into line with WTO rules . 
The four-year implementation that the Council also recommends gives our producers a chance to adjust to the new realities . 
Where I would like to see more action is in two specific areas . 
So I shall support Amendment 80 on Thursday , as I hope will the House . 
I warmly welcome the EUR 7 billion compensation that has been given to European producers and I recognise that they need that support . 
However , like other speakers in this debate , I regret that we are not being as generous to ACP producers . 
The 18 ACP producers currently have stable earnings of around EUR 250 million a year from the sugar regime . 
The Commission proposal was for EUR 190 million a year between 2007 and 2013 , which was good but not generous enough . 
Finally , I would like to add my voice to those who say that using sugar as a biofuel is a potential way forward and a potential new market for sugar . 
The situation in the Middle East remains a cause for concern , and is of direct relevance to us in Europe given the energy dependence of the EU on foreign powers , much as my own Scotland is in the happy situation of being a net exporter of energy . 
The political reforms underway in some Middle East countries are to be welcomed , and the EU could do more to support the growth of democracy in these countries . 
Current tension between the EU and Iran over the resumption of the Iranian nuclear programme can only be resolved long term by dialogue , and if we seek the position of honest broker then we must endeavour not to avoid double standards in our dealings with Iran . 
On these grounds I abstained , though welcome the adoption of the report as a whole , as it is clear that , for one example , a number of members have taken advantage of our pretty lax rules to date . 
The focus of the Charter should be kept and the participation of these enterprises in various EU programmes further encouraged . 
I also voted to ensure that the EU honours its commitments to some of the poorest countries in the world to allow duty-free and quota-free access from 2009 to our markets for their sugar through the Everything-But-Arms Initiative . 
There should be no further delays and no restrictions as an incentive to these countries to develop their infant industries . 
I regret that no new money has yet been agreed to help producers in the 18 ACP Sugar Protocol countries in view of the generous financial package available as part of this reform to EU producers . 
Whilst necessary compensation and support schemes are available to EU farmers as part of a generous financial package , I regret that no new and fresh money has yet been agreed to help producers in the 18 ACP Sugar Protocol Countries . 
I believe that the EU has a duty to provide adequate funds for restructuring assistance to these countries under the financial perspectives , above and beyond the 40 million euros committed so far for 2006 . 
I therefore voted in favour of an amendment to enshrine EU assistance to the ACP countries within the Direct Support proposal . 
I believe the Commission proposals for the new financial perspective , allowing for an amount of 190 million euros per year to help ACP producers adjust to the sugar reform , are the basis for a more acceptable adjustment scheme for our ACP trading partners . 
Democratic , human rights and governance aspects must be an integral part of the EU 's policy for cooperation with Russia . 
The situation in Chechnya can be ameliorated by EU involvement , and this motion contains ideas which we must ensure are taken forward . 
The rapporteurs are right to note that there are a number of options available to the Union , ranging from abandoning the constitutional project altogether , continuing to try to ratify the present text unamended , seeking to clarify or add to the present text , restructuring or modifying the text or embarking upon a complete rewrite . 
No conclusions should be reached on these options until the conclusion of the period of reflection , which should be in the second half of 2007 . 
I would be the first to say that the EU needs a new way of working , and indeed a new constitution , but not the flawed text so comprehensively rejected by the voters of the Netherlands and France . 
We need to take the EU back to first principles and establish what it is for , where it adds value and where indeed it does not . 
If the EU did not exist we would need to invent one , but not under the draft constitution and not in its current form . 
The European Neighbourhood Policy is a key strategy for the enlarged EU for establishing structured relations with all its new eastern and southern neighbours , the aim of defending and affirming the common values of democracy , respect for human rights and the development of common policies 
The EU is more outward looking than it is often given credit for , and while the past years have seen internal preoccupations claiming the most headlines , most of the achievements have been external , often behind the scenes . 
It is vital that these actions are continued and I was pleased to support this resolution . 
I believe they are worthy . 
Will anybody take a bet with me that we will be here again in six months ' time ? 
I would refer you to paragraph 4 of the resolution in particular . 
We are not without arms ; we are not without pressure that we can exert . 
The Cambodian Government relies on the donor community for 50 % of its annual expenditure . 
We must use that pressure more forcefully to achieve change , as opposed to just using warm words . 
This is not the West dictating to a developing nation how it should run itself ; this is the European Union expecting Cambodia to honour the agreements it has already signed up to , and to live up to international standards of decency . 
We are willing to play our part in that process . 
In paragraph 12 , we reiterate our call for an ad hoc delegation from this House to go to Cambodia to see the problems for ourselves . 
Let us start there . 
This motion for a resolution has the enthusiastic backing of my group and indeed my own backing . 
It contains a welter of information and worthy aims , but without more overt economic pressure from us , I fear that it will remain a shopping list never to be fulfilled . 
Acting together , our Union could have used its leverage to promote democracy and stability . 
Instead , its policies have given tacit support to tyrannies like Tunisia , Egypt and Syria . 
We never demanded that diplomacy depend on releasing democrats like Egypt 's Ayman Nour ; or , in Asia , on the right to a free return to his country for opposition leader Sam Rainsy , now in exile while we fund the dictatorship of Hun Sen. 
Mrs Ferrero-Waldner , Mr Solana , why are you surprised at the Palestinian poll ? 
The European Union has peddled promises of democracy , peace and human rights in Palestine while our development aid has fed Al-Fatah , whose members now burn images of one of our prime ministers and peace negotiations have got nowhere . 
Far from being a key player , Mr Solana , the consequences of Europe 's failure are plain for all to see . 
Israel , undeterred , builds a wall around East Jerusalem in violation of its roadmap obligations and international law . 
The Palestinians , tired of slow progress and shameful social services , turn to Hamas at the ballot box . 
And now the prognosis is worse than ever . 
After demanding democracy , some EU leaders talk of shunning one of the only democratically elected governments in the Arab world ! 
As Leila Shahid , the General Delegate for the Palestinian Authority said today : ` It takes two to tango ' . 
The Commissioner has spoken of policies based on human rights , the rule of law and democratic principles , but where is the emphasis on those fine things when pragmatism devoid of principles is so often the order of the day ? 
A global drive for peaceful conflict resolution would be a major counterweight to the heavy-handed US approach ; it would assure Europe 's security , prosperity and global repute ; and it would also give us far greater leverage over micro-states like the Maldives or the Seychelles , whose governments abuse human rights despite being almost totally dependent on our aid and trade . 
That is why Liberals and Democrats believe that the time has come for an accountable , properly funded and values-driven European foreign policy . 
According to Eurobarometer , it is a desire shared by 70 % of our citizens . 
Mr Solana , Liberals and Democrats object to Parliament 's views being ignored or disregarded on matters of global importance . 
We want to see less of you on television and more of you here in this Chamber . 
And we are tired of Council secrecy and its disregard for Parliament 's right to prior consultation on policy priorities . 
Those rights are enshrined in Article 21 of the Treaty and in the 1999 Interinstitutional Agreement . 
We are facing many grave challenges : to democratise our Near Neighbourhood , especially former Soviet republics currently at the mercy of Russia 's energy politics ; to ensure that the elections in Belarus are free and fair ; and to ensure that the referendums in Kosovo and Montenegro do not end in violence . 
The role of foreign policy must not end there . 
I understand that selling arms to China is back on the Council 's agenda , yet China has still not recanted the Tiananmen Square killings , nor released , after 16 years , all those jailed . 
So we demand an assurance from you , Mr Winkler , that the Austrian Presidency will not lift the Union 's arms embargo . 
Most pressing is the question of Iran . 
The IAEA board of governors meets tomorrow to decide whether to report Iran to the Security Council . 
Stopping Iran building nuclear weapons must be our aim . 
That is why Europe must commit to respect the IAEA 's findings due in March . 
But making progress towards the disarmament of the current nuclear powers , in line with the commitments we have made , is the strongest and most convincing message we could possibly send . 
A Europe which learns to use its muscle as a force for good is truly a force to be reckoned with . 
My committee considers that a free market works in the best interests of the consumer . 
We were persuaded to accept the Commission 's proposal to make exceptions for alcoholic beverages , soluble coffee , white sugar -- we added brown sugar for consistency -- and for aerosols . 
In the interests of consistency , we also proposed a regulated size for spirits bottles of 750 cl , which was the widely accepted size of wine bottles . 
It verges on the misleading to have 750 cl the standard bottle for wine and 700 cl the standard bottle for spirits . 
Therefore , we regret that this proposal was rejected by the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection . 
We appreciate that the Committee on the Internal Market and its very conscientious rapporteur , my good friend Mr Toubon , have considered these matters very thoroughly . 
However , we in the Committee on Industry are disappointed to see proposals from that committee to introduce fixed , harmonised , mandatory sizes on a whole range of staple products which have not previously been so harmonised . 
EU legislation requires unit pricing so that the price for a standard amount must be displayed , and this helps consumers to compare prices fairly . 
The ability to decide freely on package sizes is in the interests of the smaller business , the new entrant , the innovative enterprise and , therefore , also in the interests of the consumer . 
There is nothing to stop marketing of traditional sizes ; there is nothing to stop the use of traditional measures such as pints and pounds . 
The Commission proposal did not even mention milk . 
Nothing needed to change from the status quo . 
The Committee on Industry suggests that Parliament support the Commission 's praiseworthy attempt to reduce unnecessary regulation and vote against the Committee on the Internal Market 's proposed extension of mandatory sizes to all these extra products . 
I welcome this report on rules of nominal quantities for pre-packaged products . 
I am in favour of retaining specific quantities for staple foods as I believe it is important to maintain nominal quantities in the interest of the British consumer . 
The report preserves essential parts of existing legislation and , in particular , removes the unjustified attempt by the Commission to abolish fixed sizes within 20 years . 
Given the complexity of ` unit pricing ' , such protection laws will ensure that the current sale of the British pint of milk is not put at risk . 
Contrary to inaccurate Eurosceptic scare-stories that have caused much controversy amongst consumers , British consumer choice is protected . 
On behalf of the PPE-DE Group , I very much welcome your White Paper on a European communication policy . 
It comes at a time when the gap between Europe and its citizens is widening . 
A sense of alienation from Brussels pervades our electorate : alienation from its institutions and from politics in general . 
The poor electoral turnout in 2004 was sadly a clear reminder of the need for the EU to learn to communicate more with its citizens . 
However , it is not only a question of having communication in Europe : we need communication . 
And in order to communicate better , Europe also needs to listen more . 
European leaders have lost contact with their public and I agree with you , Commissioner , when you say in your communication that citizens expect Europe to offer them guarantees of prosperity , solidarity and security in the face of globalisation . 
Indeed tomorrow I am going to Aberdeen to address council leaders on the financial perspective , and that is European communication in action . 
However , you must ensure that this White Paper does not merely remain a consultation exercise , inconsequential and detached from the very same people whom it is trying to reach . 
We in Europe tend to be very good at debating , and less good at delivering . 
Our ideas must be followed by action . 
I wondered , when you mentioned the importance of the Erasmus and Citizens for Europe programmes as a way of bridging the gap between the EU and its citizens , whether this is not slightly contradictory , given the fact that these programmes have actually suffered significant cuts in the 2006 budget . 
We may need better understanding and more details on how exactly you intend to finance this massive public relations strategy . 
Communication , transparency , open access to documents and involvement in policy-making are not even fully developed amongst ourselves , the MEPs , the EU 's representatives . 
This House represents the very people we are trying to communicate with , but sadly this Parliament is not consulted enough , or often when it is too late . 
It is often not listened to , it is often contradicted by the unaccountable and impenetrable workings of the Council . 
While listening to this debate yet again I am struck by the extent to which it is the wrong question we are asking , and hence coming up with the wrong answer . 
The Commission 's communication strategy is worthy enough in aim , but I doubt it will in fact achieve much because the reality of the EU as a whole , not just the workings of the Commission itself , are very far from ideal . 
We have an old saying in Scotland that you can not polish a turnip and no amount of presentation will disguise the fact that the EU has a structural problem which we are not addressing . 
The institutional mechanisms of , and subject matter dealt with by the various parts of the EU must be addressed in the light of enlargement , or risk continued stagnation . 
Only real reform will bring the EU closer to the citizen and it is upon that reform we should concentrate . 
The regulation lays down four main elements . 
It establishes that all new vehicles should be fitted with digital tachographs and it defines a ` regular daily rest period ' as any uninterrupted period of rest of at least 11 hours , which alternatively may be taken in two periods . 
In addition , a new definition on ` driving time ' has been agreed upon , as well as the provisions of the European agreement concerning the work of crews of vehicles engaged in international road transport , which are now being aligned with those of the regulation . 
Finally , it acknowledges that the maximum weekly working time of 60 hours per week must be respected . 
All in all , I agree that the regulation contributes significantly to greater road safety in Europe . 
The internal market has been a massive advantage for EU producers , and we in this house must ensure that those advantages remain to the fore . 
The AFET Committee 's report sets out priorities needed to prevent conflicts and build international cooperation founded on respect for human rights and international law . 
There is a discrepancy between how crimes of violence are treated and punished depending on the gender of the victim . 
Whether such violence occurs in a public environment or in a private environment should not be relevant in tackling such violence as a criminal offence . 
Whilst recognising that the declaration on the elimination of violence against women adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1993 was an important milestone in the recognition of the problem of domestic violence against women , this report rightly stresses that , in the EU context , more can be done . 
I especially support its calls for a fundamental analysis of the extent of the problem following studies carried out in three EU countries showing that 40-50 % of women had , at some point in their lives , been subjected to violence by a man . 
In the EU we have a duty to recognise and ensure the rights of women to life and physical safety under the rule of law . 
I agree that measures must be taken to promote employment for women as well as reduce the continuing inequalities between women and men . 
The report stresses the disparities that still exist in underlying factors such as employment , the wage gap , lifelong education and training . 
It also assesses the ways in which professional , family and private life can be successfully combined . 
While we are right to call on Hamas to recognise Israel and end terrorism , we should not bring into question the outcome of fair and free democratic elections . 
The EU must continue to give aid to the Palestinian people and remain fully engaged as a member of the Quartet pushing the ` roadmap for peace ' . 
The aid the EU gives to the peace process can , and indeed must , be conditional upon continued moves towards peace . 
To shut off the aid now would risk alienating an organisation the EU must remain engaged with . 
I believe continued application of EU pressure will help to deliver a long-term solution . 
We can not disengage now because of distaste for individual partners we are obliged to work with . 
The EU needs to find new ways of working to ensure legitimacy of our decisions . 
Continuing the notion that everyone is equally interested in everything is untenable and discredits the EU itself . 
Mr President , I too welcome this report and would like to thank the Commission and the rapporteur for actions which demonstrate that the EU is still prepared to take a leading role in actively improving and promoting animal welfare issues . 
In particular we need further action on stocking density , on uninterrupted rest periods -- a minimum of six hours in the darkness -- and on issues such as the inhumane issue of beak trimming . 
That said , even if we only go as far as the proposal put forward by Mr Berman , there would be a big step forward for animal welfare , but it will also be a big step forward for consumers . 
Consumers worry about the conditions under which their chicken meat is produced and they worry about the health of the chicken they are eating . 
Properly reared chicken will be a better piece of meat when it goes on the plate . 
Finally , I would like to address the issue of cost . 
I have looked at the various estimates of what this would cost the industry . 
I accept that the industry is facing real challenges from places like Thailand and Brazil , but there are other factors -- cost of labour and other costs -- that we can not compete on . 
I call on colleagues to give their full support to this report on access restrictions to the CFP , which cover the Shetland Box and the Plaice Box . 
This report is good news for sustainable EU fisheries policy as it recognises the need to make sensitive use of access restrictions . 
I should like to thank the PSE Group for its invaluable backing . 
The restrictions covered by this report are of obvious importance , and I call on all colleagues to vote for paragraph 8 and for the resolution as a whole . 
The common fisheries policy is an unmitigated disaster which should be swept away , not perpetuated and exported to third countries . 
The fact that the title and scope of the directive have been amended to cover optical radiations from artificial sources only is to be welcomed . 
I hope the Commission will learn from this , having originally brought ridicule upon the EU by proposing to ban sunshine - giving a public relations gift to eurosceptics and their ever-supportive media . 
That unnecessary row could have been avoided , but I welcome this belated acceptance of the European Parliament 's commonsense decision . 
Now we will have a directive which legitimately seeks to protect workers who work with lasers and electrical welding equipment , those in the steel and glass industries and those in artificial tanning businesses . 
The accepted guidelines are designed to prevent the acute and long-term effects to the eyes and skin that can occur with high levels of exposure . 
I believe it is sensible for Parliament to establish exposure limit values , as this provides workers with a safeguard against artificial sources such as lasers , cathode tubes and welding instruments . 
It is unfortunate that the initial drafts of the legislation gave rise to so many silly stories about the EU attempting to regulate sunlight when the aims of the legislation - to protect European workers from harmful radiation - are so worthy . 
I am glad that Parliament was able to make this legislation sensible by doing our job , and I am pleased to vote for it today . 
Although most of the stronger amendments failed , I voted for the report in the hope that the Commission proposal will lead to some progress in addressing significant welfare problems in the chicken meat sector . 
The report shows that once again the EU is taking a leading role in actively improving animal welfare standards . 
The proposal addresses a difficult issue of public concern as the current welfare standards for chickens kept for meat production are very low , leading to painful leg disorders and lameness , ascites ( enlargement of the heart ) , sudden death syndrome and ammonium burns . 
I welcome the Agriculture Committee 's proposals but I believe the proposals did not go far enough . 
It is for this reason that I supported the Jørgensen amendments and I am disappointed that they were not adopted by Parliament . 
It is time the EU took action to improve the wellbeing of broiler hens across the EU , many of which live in apalling circumstances during their short lives . 
It is unfortunate that a number of my group 's amendments to this report did not pass , though the report itself goes some way to raising standards and I was glad to support it . 
This is an issue whose importance was emphasised on 27 October 2005 by the Heads of State and Government of the European Union at the UK Presidency 's informal summit at Hampton Court . 
As a member of the International Trade Committee I have been pressing for social and environmental concerns to be taken into account in an era of globalisation and against the background of the rise of China , India and Brazil . 
This is not simple protectionism : my concerns arise from the need to ensure that liberalisation of the world economy , particularly through the multilateral trading system , should not lead to a lowering of employment and social standards or a race to the bottom . 
Whilst I therefore supported amendments to increase preferential access to the EU market for those third countries which have ratified and appropriately applied core international labour and environmental standards as an added incentive , I believe that the Commission should work more closely with the ILO to investigate and inform itself of the observance and enforcement of these core standards in practice , so as to safeguard against future abuses of the new GSP + system . 
My group was therefore unable to support it . 
The overwhelming decision of the European Parliament to support an area of protected waters around the north of Scotland is very welcome indeed . 
MEPs from around Europe have recognised the importance of these waters to Scotland 's northern communities . 
The Commission must now recognise that the principle of unrestricted access to waters is unsustainable . 
Fishing rights must be allocated to the communities who depend on them . 
That is now the political will of the European Parliament and no amount of lobbying by those who demand equal access to waters and resources should be allowed to undermine that . 
Parliament 's vote is a rare example of good news coming from Europe for Scotland 's fishermen and I call upon the Council of Ministers , who will make the final decision , to follow our lead . 
I am delighted that the Commission decided to retain the Shetland Box and the Plaice Box and I welcome the fact that Parliament has backed this proposal ; the three-year extension is good for conservation and good for Scottish fishing interests . 
It does Europe no favours , as it clearly diminishes the EU in the eyes of our citizens to have such an unworkable policy . 
My own country , Scotland , is potentially a world leader in renewable energy advantages , but because of domestic inaction we have not yet capitalised on this . 
This report shows how the EU can help encourage growth in this vital future technology and I am pleased to support it , even though a few of the key recommendations were not passed by the house . 
This Parliament must make a choice . 
Down the route of reform lies a dynamic , competitive Union which creates jobs , wealth and opportunity for its citizens . 
Down the path of protectionism lies short-term gain for some , and long-term loss for all , especially our 20 million unemployed . 
70 % of Europe 's economy and workforce relies on a healthy service sector , a sector being slowly strangled by a mindless mass of regulation . 
Mrs Gebhardt says ` think of small businesses ' . 
It is because we think of them that we want the country of origin principle . 
They send people over to do market research . 
Then they trade to test it before setting up an office or a subsidiary . 
Doing away with the country of origin principle reduces the growth effects of this measure by half . 
Liberals and Democrats favour a search for compromise , but compromise between mutually exclusive policies is no compromise . 
We call it the ` Berlin blockage ' . 
This directive does not usher in social dumping . 
If they are in any doubt , Mr Schulz and Mr Rasmussen should read the 1996 directive on the posting of workers . 
It is still in force . 
Rather , the draft before us transforms principles like the free market of goods , services , capital and people into reality for 450 million people . 
These are founding principles of our Union which are simply not compatible with second-class citizenship for our new Member States . 
If we can create a single market in services to rival our single market in goods , we can raise GDP by nearly 2 % and create up to 2.5 million new jobs . 
That is what Frits Bolkestein wanted for Europe . 
To allow Member States to justify barriers to service provision on the basis of social policy and consumer protection would drive a lance through the heart of his proposal . 
However , we would not be contemplating such an emasculation of draft legislation if Mr Barroso and his Commissioners had defended their draft directive instead of tilting at windmills . 
Does Commissioner McCreevy believe that his cabinet 's lobbying of Parliament last week advanced the case for Europe 's single market ? 
Does he not know that paragraph 3 in compromise amendment 293 is contrary to ECJ jurisprudence and the Treaty 's provision on the free movement of services ? 
I hope , Commissioner McCreevy , that you will answer that point in your reply . 
No , rather than showing the way , this Commission cowers in the shadows of public opinion and Member States ' hesitation . 
Greater productivity , more jobs , higher wages , stronger companies : these are all within our grasp and that is why I urge the House to vote to make Europe a dynamic marketplace for jobs and services . 
It was last April , in the heat of the run-up to the French referendum vote , that the Committee on Industry , Research and Energy adopted Mr Chatzimarkakis ' opinion on the Services Directive . 
That opinion challenged the then prevalent hostility to this directive , with the absurdly exaggerated claims about Polish plumbers and social dumping that were then being thrown around . 
From its very first directly elected plenary in 1979 , this Parliament has championed the cause of a truly free and open single market , as envisaged in the original Treaties . 
Out of an internal subcommittee of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , of which I was proud to be a member , came the Kangaroo Group and the 1992 single market programme under the Single European Act of 1985 . 
I find it difficult to understand or justify why services were left out of that enterprise . 
Now is our opportunity to emulate the courage and foresight of our predecessors and make sure that a real single market in services is implemented . 
Trade unionists , French ` no ' voters , French plumbers : truly there is nothing to be afraid of . 
It can provide the opportunities that everyone seeks , especially in SMEs , as an essential element of a successful , competitive and prosperous European economy . 
The opinion of the Committee on Industry , Research and Energy , which took a liberal line , was supported by 34 votes to 6 , by conservatives , liberals and even most of the socialists . 
I hope we can look to Parliament as a whole to adopt a similarly courageous and far-sighted position . 
Adam Smith was right : freed-up trade works ; a really free and open market in services will work and get more and more Europeans back into work . 
Seventy per cent of Europe 's GDP is now based on services . 
The biggest gap in completing the Single European Market is in the Services sector . 
If we could create a dynamic single market for services , around 600 000 new jobs could be created in the EU . 
Removing the administrative and technical barriers to companies operating outside their own country is therefore a desirable and important objective and opens up the sector to fair competition . 
However , driving down workers ' rights , wages and health and safety measures has no part in creating a dynamic service sector and that is why I will be voting for amendments that exclude labour law and free collective bargaining from the scope of the directive . 
I also believe that certain services such as health , social services and aspects of education are so sensitive that they should not be covered by this particular measure . 
I am glad that the Council and Parliament were able to reach a satisfactory compromise on the amendments that we adopted at first reading . 
I welcome the development of nuclear power when it is for civil use . 
It is for this reason that all possible diplomatic pressures should be applied to the government of Iran to get it to conform to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty , so that any suspicions can be ruled out . 
I must emphasise that the people of Iran should not be demonised or blamed in any way ; our dispute is solely with its leadership and I regret the recent comments by President Ahmadinejad on Israel . 
Mr President , I rise on a point of political importance under Rule 144 . 
However , I am somewhat dismayed that , in your hurry to ensure the inclusion of all Members in the work of Parliament , you chose to bypass them entirely and instead provide your draft proposal first to the press , without prior consultation with the Members you are so keen to assist . 
Why is this item not on the agenda ? 
I am further dismayed that your solution to the vexed question of MEP participation is to recommend the complete centralisation of decision-making to the Conference of Presidents , which you chair . 
Mr President , perhaps you could explain to me and the rest of the House how your great vision of democratic inclusion and participation can be achieved by centralisation and exclusion ? 
In the words of Mr Poettering , the chairman of our group , this amounts to unfocused administrative micro-management within Parliament . 
I agree with the idea of a body dealing exclusively with gender equality matters , since it ensures that the objective of gender equality , as set out in the Treaty , will not be second to any other anti-discrimination policy at EU level . 
It is essential that , given the absence of full recognition of any EU representative bloc , with delegatory powers agreed by Member States , individual EU Member States continue to represent themselves inside the IMF . 
There are many key issues , such as development , which rely upon many voices to get a point of view across . 
Through the principle of partnership , it is the Member States ' and the Commission 's responsibility to deny any involvement in the structural funds to companies which , having received European Union aid , relocate their activity to another Member State or third country within seven years after the granting of the aid . 
In this regard , it is essential that the EU establish a European strategy to combat relocation in coordination with all the Member States as well as a European Relocation Observatory to study , evaluate , follow up and make concrete proposals on the subject of long-term agreements in the field of employment and local development . 
Given the rise in statistically affected regions in Scotland , it is now more important than ever that positive measures are taken to ensure that allocated funds are spent effectively and respect the length of the entire programming period . 
Mercury is a highly toxic substance and it is vital that scientific evidence is used to establish where it can be used safely and where it should be banned . 
I urge the Commission to bring forward the results of its investigation as a matter of urgency . 
Despite concerns over further regulation , I am encouraged by the fact that i2010 should benefit all citizens in helping to bridge the digital divide and narrow social and regional imbalances . 
It is clear that the EU is facing new competitive challenges on the world market , challenges which cause anxiety and uncertainty for our industry , our workers and our consumers . 
Yet as we adjust to the new global environment we must avoid the populist appeal of protectionist measures which are at best a short-term panacea for long-term ills . 
In this instance , however , it appears that there has been a well-documented case of dumping and injury to the European industry . 
Whilst I fear that some EU companies with good employment standards and interests in the Far East ( for example Clarks shoes ) will be hit by these measures , I am pleased to see certain exemptions to the punitive tariff proposed by the Commission have been obtained , namely in the sensitive children 's footwear sector . 
On balance I think that the Commission has hit the right note here . 
I am inclined to agree with the Commissioner when he states that consumers should be more concerned about the mark-up enjoyed until now by retailers on goods produced cheaply in poor employment and environmental conditions and then sold below the cost of production . 
Our partners must now address these social and employment issues , issues which we ourselves have faced and dedicated much time and effort to overcoming jointly through the European project . 
My group broadly shares her assessment and her concerns . 
However , I would not be speaking here for my group today were it not for the fact that our colleague , Mr Duquesne , who was Interior Minister in Belgium at the time and very supportive of this measure , is sadly seriously ill in hospital . 
At the time we took the measure through we believed that the European Arrest Warrant offered practical solutions to the issues of greatest concern to Europe 's citizens : their safety and security . 
It has been well used by Member States and has generally worked well . 
Nobody would deny that there have been some teething problems . 
In addition to delays in implementation , controversial court decisions in Poland and Germany have raised eyebrows -- and accusations that this measure violates fundamental rights . 
Nonetheless , all Member States are bound by the European Convention on Human Rights and by European Court of Human Rights case-law , as stated specifically in this measure . 
I have two questions today . 
The first is to the Council . 
Will the Council name and shame the Member States that are blocking the framework decision on procedural rights , which would set to rest any concerns about violations of fundamental rights in this measure ? 
What does the Council believe is the likely timetable for agreement of the framework decision ? 
The second question is to the Commission . 
Could the Commissioner tell us if the warrant has now been correctly implemented in the country he knows best and whether any other Member States are dragging their heels , and will he start proceedings against any Member State that has misapplied the law or limited its effects ? 
I agree with the Council that you can not allow the poor people of Ethiopia to suffer for the inadequacies of their government . 
How will the Council support civil society in delivering aid within Ethiopia ? 
It is clear we should not be channelling any funds through the Ethiopian Government but we should continue to encourage NGOs to be involved in Ethiopia . 
However , they need logistical support to be successful there . 
How will the Council assist NGOs in Ethiopia ? 
I was pleased to hear the Council 's response , because megaphone diplomacy is not going to work in the case of Iran . 
When George Bush made his famous speech , naming Iran as part of the ` axis of evil ' , Iran was part of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty . 
It is now no longer part of that treaty , partly because it feels exiled from the rest of the world . 
If you treat people as evil , they will act as if they are evil . 
Will the Council assure us that it will continue dialogue with Iran but not get involved in the internal politics , not -- as some of my colleagues have suggested -- backing individual political parties , but opening up Iran to wider discussion ? 
EU backing for a single political party would be death to that party inside Iran . 
Mr President , let me first of all warmly congratulate the rapporteur , Mr Ó Neachtain , for a brilliant own-initiative report on introducing environmentally friendly fishing methods to the EU fisheries sector . 
He has produced a very fitting conclusion to an initiative that , as he reminded us , was first started by the Irish Presidency . 
I agree with him and I agree with the Commissioner on the need to decriminalise honest fishermen . 
First of all , there is the need for the Commission to take a more wide-ranging view of measures to protect the marine environment and rebuild depleted fish stocks , in particular by studying factors other than over-fishing that may cause fish stocks to be depleted , such as pollution and global warming . 
As you know , Commissioner , there is mounting evidence that over-fishing has not been the only cause of the collapse of cod stocks in the North Sea . 
If that was so , the dramatic reduction in the number of fishing vessels that are now fishing for cod in the North Sea -- numbers have collapsed by 60 % through decommissioning in the last five years -- would have led to a remarkable recovery in cod stocks , but that has not been the case . 
It seems to me that the other factors -- such as global warming or pollution or whatever other factors may be evident -- should now be the basis of your review of the cod recovery programme , which I am delighted that you have agreed to carry out . 
Indeed , the other point from Mr Ó Neachtain 's report that I want to emphasise is the point he strongly made on discards , when he emphasised that over 20 million tons of fish are discarded worldwide every year . 
One million tons are discarded in Europe every year . 
Commissioner , you said that two pilot projects were already under way . 
I thought you were also carrying out pilot projects in the North Sea . 
If you have any further information on the pilot projects and evidence concerning discards and how this may be tackled in the future I would very much like to hear it in your winding-up speech . 
I know of no one with any interest whatsoever in fisheries who would not support the principle of environmentally friendly fishing methods : the people with most to gain , after all , from protecting the marine environment and ensuring a balance between conservation and harvesting of fish stocks are the fishermen themselves . 
Most of the fishermen I know are not just fishing for today but are hoping that , one day , their families will be able to follow them into the business . 
However , there is much more to environmental protection than just technical measures , important as they will always be . 
The CFP itself , I would contend , is not environmentally friendly : TACs and quotas measure not the amount of fish caught but only the fish landed . 
Discards are by the CFP , rather than prevented by it . 
Many people in Scotland 's fisheries-dependent communities are totally disillusioned with the European Union 's management of fisheries ; so much so that , today , the Scottish Parliament 's European Committee considered a petition based on 250 000 signatures calling for withdrawal from the CFP . 
The Scottish Parliament agreed to ask for legal advice on this . 
That was not done lightly , but because there is a real and serious need for more radical reform than we have had thus far . 
It certainly seems to us that where the tectonic plates of the world 's three great monotheistic religions -- Christianity , Judaism and Islam -- are rubbing up against each other and causing sparks to fly , we need to proceed with extreme caution . 
This House should not underestimate the risk of a wider conflagration in the Middle East . 
The tragic events of 9/11 and the equally tragic response have seriously threatened the chances for continued peace in our world . 
Just as European Union diplomacy with Iran is being undermined by George Bush riding roughshod over the Non-Proliferation Treaty in his dealings with India , so our diplomacy on the Middle East is being jeopardised by the actions of Israel yesterday . 
I hope that the European Union , through the Council and Commission , will protest in the strongest terms to the Israeli Government about these actions . 
There are questions to be asked about whether there was a conspiracy between the British and American monitors guarding the prison who left shortly before the Israelis moved in , and I hope the Council will come back to this House with a report once we know the full facts of the situation . 
The irony is that this so-called patriotism -- thinly disguised economic nationalism -- will bring as few benefits to the citizens of France , Spain or Poland as it does to the rest of Europe , for it is fair competition that drives the global market , raises quality and lowers prices , and it is fair competition that protectionism undermines . 
If any company can see commercial logic in merging with another , what business is it of ours to put roadblocks in its path ? 
The great success of the euro , as the President of the Commission has pointed out , is that mergers and takeovers are proceeding apace . 
European industry is gearing up for the challenges of competing in a global economy . 
These are issues for the Spring Council . 
They are issues for the Commission because the Commission is going to be tested in this climate as a defender and guarantor of the Treaties . 
Faced with an unprecedented assault on the internal market , the Commission must hold firm to the Treaties , hold firm to the basic freedoms and speak out when necessary -- as you have , President Barroso , and as Commissioners McCreevy and Kroes have too -- and act to defend the Union . 
But defence of the single market falls not only to the Commission ; the Council has a role , as we stress in the motion we debate today . 
That means the Spring Council expediting transposition and implementation of the Union 's directives to deliver a single market with free movement of goods , services and capital . 
We want to see the European Council deal seriously with free movement of services , free movement of workers and free movement of capital . 
As they discuss the future financing of our Union , let the Heads of State and Government find the funds necessary for the training of our workforce , for the trans-European networks and for research and development through the European Institute for Technology , which will secure future economic dynamism . 
It is time for our Heads of State and Government to formalise the Council meetings that take place in March and October . 
These need not be billed purely as economic policy summits ; the demands of energy security , of peace in the Middle-East and of fighting internationally organised crime are equally urgent and should be on next week 's agenda . 
There should be public discussion too of the Union 's burgeoning defence policy , currently being planned behind closed doors . 
The Austrian Presidency opened to public scrutiny a recent Environment Council meeting ; why not make this openness universal practice in the Council ? 
My group welcomes the Commission 's proposal to bring forward a concept paper so that we can discuss defence policy here in Parliament and involve our citizens in the discussion of what our continent can become . 
President-in-Office , a century ago your country had a foreign minister who studied in Strasbourg , restored the old regime and dominated continental politics for 30 years . 
The EAW 's role in strengthening judicial cooperation and mutual trust is extremely innovative and improves the Member States ' ability to fight against organised crime and terrorism . 
I agree with the recommendation that the Parliament should be more involved in the evaluation of the EAW and that fundamental rights in the context of the EAW need to be ensured in order to make sure EU citizens from different Member States do not experience any discrimination . 
The resolution stresses the need for an integrated Europe-wide campaign and therefore calls on Member States to launch and promote the ` Red card ' campaign in close cooperation with NGOs , the police , law enforcement agencies , churches and medical services . 
As well as seeking to inform the general public , the resolution calls on the International Olympic Committee and sports associations , including FIFA , UEFA , the German Football Association and others , as well as sportsmen and sportswomen , to support the ` Red card ' campaign and roundly condemn trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution . 
The report agrees that restructuring is not necessarily synonymous with social decline provided that such measures are correctly anticipated and managed through good collaboration between the affected firms and trade unions , plus a suitable training policy for workers . 
It calls for support to be given to SMEs and proposes that the financial programmes under discussion for 2007-2013 should be geared more closely to anticipating and managing restructuring . 
To prevent ` subsidy tourism ' , the report argues that firms subsidised from EU funds should not receive any further Community aid for a given period of time if they relocate part or all of their activities within the EU . 
It is a pleasure today to be invited to celebrate something which can only be regarded as a victory . 
In western Europe , thanks to the political leaders of the post-war generation , we enjoy democracy . 
In a democracy , a change comes through the ballot , not through the bullet . 
The actions of ETA , the IRA , the Red Brigades and the other terrorist groups we have known in the past have been unjustifiable terrorist actions . 
On behalf of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe , I welcome the process through which ETA has announced this ceasefire . 
I look forward to seeing dialogue and democracy as the basis for change in Spain and across our continent . 
Mr President , I rise to commend you for ensuring respect for the rules of the House , for showing the flexibility to meet the demands of our colleagues for a vote tomorrow morning and I move that we proceed forthwith to next business . 
We have before us a blueprint for the future with its emphasis on knowledge , enterprise , jobs and energy . 
The 2007 Annual Policy Strategy succeeds in putting flesh on the bones of the Hampton Court proposals , which could help make Europe the most dynamic and competitive economy in the world , if Member States would only move beyond the platitudes dished up at the annual Lisbon Spring Council . 
I have seen the draft Council conclusions . 
Fine words from such faint hearts ! 
Europe deserves better . 
It deserves the shared responsibility of which Mr Barroso spoke . 
That is why Liberals and Democrats welcome the ambition displayed by the European Commission . 
This paper promises what previous annual policy strategies manifestly failed to provide : practical proposals for European renewal by creating legal migration channels and a common European asylum system -- and their corollary of better border management -- to provide the workers and security that Europe needs ; by fast-tracking a European energy policy ; completing the internal market for energy and gas ; investing in clean coal technologies ; and balancing flexibility and social protection with the demands of markets to boost growth and competitiveness . 
There is one thing that the Commission has not learned . 
Add to these the enlargement of the eurozone and the welcoming of Bulgaria and Romania , and 2007 could be a seminal year for Europe , particularly if we get the constitutional process back on track . 
However , success hinges on a factor that has been absent up to now , and can not be replaced by any number of Commission proposals : national ownership of necessary reforms by Member States . 
Who will trust leadership which says one thing and does another ; which agrees policies , but then backtracks , disrupts and weakens their implementation ? 
I refer not only to attacks on the services or takeovers directives from economic protectionists , I am talking about a more general myopia that prevents Member States from seeing the bigger picture ; the myopia which prompted the Council to throw out proposals to name and shame poorly performing countries and refuse adequate funding for Europe 's priority areas . 
It is also one reason why the ambitions of last year 's annual policy strategy to make progress on Doha , on the Lisbon goals and on the Constitution came famously unstuck . 
So that is the challenge facing Europe 's leaders when they convene for tomorrow 's Spring Council . 
Europe needs them to construct a coalition of the coherent . 
That is why the report from Philip Bushill-Matthews is both timely and highly relevant . 
The problem with politicians nowadays is that we only think in five-year time frames . 
It is not seen as politically expedient to deal with matters that will have a dramatic impact on our lives ten or twenty years down the line . 
Indeed , in the past few months I have been chairing a PPE-DE working group dealing with specific aspects of demographic change . 
We have come up with some fairly useful conclusions on the issue . 
First of all , in the field of demography and the family , Europe should not resign itself to a decline in its population . 
Improving the overall situation for children and for young people and enhancing the compatibility of work and family life for men and women , combined with tax incentives , could have a significant impact on birth rates . 
Secondly , it is clear that more choice and flexibility in the labour market is needed in Europe . 
In this respect we should enhance the participation in the workforce of women , young people and older people , by providing new opportunities through , for instance , flexibility of working hours , the promotion of part-time jobs and autonomous work . 
The education systems need to be reformed in order to increase the efficiency and pace of higher education , thus enabling an earlier entry into working life . 
Thirdly , skilled workers from third countries should be attracted , but according to our working group , we should not consider immigration as a single solution to Europe 's future demographic and labour market problems . 
In order to be able to face the challenge of demographic change and sustain an ever-changing society , we need to ensure the determined implementation of the Lisbon Agenda . 
To develop and thrive , Europe needs -- to use one of Mr Barroso 's buzz words -- ` flexicurity ' and innovation . 
Security and flexibility of the labour market will enable us to respond to the challenges of globalisation . 
To achieve this we need to reform our pension systems and concentrate on growth and jobs by introducing innovative measures to support the birth rate and by a judicious use of immigration . 
Only through innovation , through re-inventing ourselves , can we be sure that the challenge of demographic change will become tomorrow 's opportunity for growth . 
It is clear that if Europe is to meet its demographic challenges it must address more effectively in the future than it does today the issue of work-life balance . 
If we are to attract parents of young children , the elderly or other groups who find standard ` nine-to-five ' work impossible , we must achieve more flexible working hours , have better and more accessible childcare provisions , more family-friendly tax policies and greater equality in the workplace . 
However , it is clear even if we attract more of Europe 's existing residents into the workforce we will still face skill shortages . 
That is why we also need to have a balanced immigration policy . 
The Action Programme aims to deliver an opinion on the consumer protection aspect for the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection - the committee responsible . 
It will do this by harmonising consumer protection throughout the single market , enabling citizens to move freely within the EU and buy goods with the same confidence as in their countries of origin . 
By providing a better understanding of consumers and markets , this Action Programme protects citizens from risks and threats beyond the control of individuals . 
I am also particularly in favour of this Action Programme as it will put health and consumer issues at the centre of policy-making in the EU . 
According to the Commission , in order to face up to demographic change , Europe should pursue three essential priorities : a return to demographic growth , ensuring a balance between the generations , and ` finding new bridges between the stages of life ' . 
In our society , it is more important than ever that we confront our demographic challenges and harness the knowledge of our older citizens to the best of our ability . 
. The report on the promotion of crops for non-food purposes is extremely timely given the rapidly declining reserve of fossil fuels . 
The cultivation of biomass , for example , can contribute efficiently in decreasing the greenhouse effect , which is primarily caused by CO2 , by buffering the CO2 emission . 
I am in favour of the promotion of renewable energy through the production of crops . 
Several current technologies , such as energy derived from biomass , are economically viable and competitive and will , in turn , open up new markets for farmers in the European Union , thus stimulating economic , social and environmental growth . 
The European Parliament Ombudsman considers that the meetings of the Council , when it acts in its legislative capacity , are not open to the public and the Council 's refusal to decide to open up these meetings is an instance of maladministration . 
This timely report follows on from the British Presidency 's call for greater transparency . 
Moreover , public opinion polls and statements by NGOs , civil society and the academic world underscore citizens ' wishes for increased accountability of their governments regarding EU issues . 
I agree it is unacceptable that an important lawmaking body of the EU still meets behind closed doors when acting as a legislator , especially at a time when the EU sees itself as a promoter of democratisation and accountability . 
I am therefore in favour of public meetings of the Council to be broadcast and webcast , as well as for official transcripts of the legislative meetings to be issued . 
The requested amendments to the Council should be regarded as a long overdue adaptation of the Council to the European reality and institutional equality in lawmaking . 
For an organisation that talks so much about openness , we see little of it in practice outside of this House , and opening the doors of the Council would go so far towards informing the people of Europe about what is being done in their name . 
This report is only the start of that process and we must continue to press this crucial issue . 
This report calls on the Commission to create a legislative proposal on the right of access to European Parliament , Council and Commission documents . 
Through this proposal , the report seeks to adhere to the principle of subsidiarity , the fundamental rights of citizens , the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights , particularly on Article 8 , and Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
I am fully supportive of this report as I believe the EU not only has an obligation to be as open and transparent as possible to its citizens ; it also has to take a leading role in setting an example to governments and parliaments of Member States as well as to those of accession and candidate countries . 
The problems many Members have had over access to documents have been an issue all across the House and it is only right that we should be starting to address it here . 
I only hope we will see the aims of this report backed up by action . 
We voted today to send a strong political signal to the negotiating parties , including the EU , to honour commitments to a successful conclusion of this round geared towards the poorest countries , as agreed at Doha . 
As Labour 's spokesperson on International Trade , I submitted a number of amendments to this report at its committee stage . 
Then , as now , I called for the exclusion of key public services ( including water ) from liberalisation drives . 
On the paragraph relating to NAMA , I called for flexibility in the number and range of coefficients used in formulating tariff cuts , so as to leave adequate policy space for developing countries to choose the rate at which they liberalise . 
I voted for a similar amendment today . 
On agriculture , whilst I agree with the Commission 's assessment that negotiations should be pursued in parallel with those of other sectors , I could not vote in favour of calls by some colleagues for the current EU offer to be made conditional and even retractable . 
I believe the current offer should at least be maintained . 
The aims of the ` Make Poverty History ' campaign and the march in Edinburgh last summer have so comprehensively not been met that it is a sorely missed opportunity . 
As we heard yesterday , a lack of Council transparency remains the elephant in the room ; it remains the root cause of so much discontent with EU lawmaking in general . 
Surely the Council can take more steps towards meaningfully meeting in public . 
Right now only Havana and Pyong Yang operate in such an opaque fashion . 
We should be doing better than that in the 21st century . 
More substantively , turning to subsidiarity and especially paragraphs 25-29 of Mr Doorn 's report , I give my own country , Scotland , as an example of the missed opportunity that subsidiarity currently represents . 
I would associate myself with all of Mr Doorn 's recommendations on impact assessments , although I echo Mrs Wallis ' comments on political engagement and stress that such engagement must be as local as possible . 
Then perhaps we will see subsidiarity starting to work for the betterment of EU legislation in the future . 
The Commissioner probably finds himself between Scylla and Charybdis in this argument , but I am sure that he will bear in mind the great damage that drift nets and gill nets have done in the past to , for example , the wild salmon in the North Atlantic , and that he will be robust in protecting the fisheries from that method of fishing . 
I hope this agreement will commend itself for approval to my group , to the House and to the Council and Commission . 
I would not pretend that my group is satisfied with the outcome . 
We know that it is fashionable in the national capitals of some of our Member States to pour cold water on common endeavour . 
But if the centripetal force for our Union is no longer coming from visionary leadership within , it will certainly come from developments beyond our borders . 
I hope that our Member States will use the review of EU financing that they have agreed on to look again at providing our Union with the resources it needs . 
Our group hopes , too , that we can make progress -- as suggested by the Council -- towards a proper statement of assurance , so that the auditors can finally sign off the accounts for the Union . 
That is , it seems to us , a minimum for regaining public confidence . 
Congratulations to the Austrians for avoiding a row . 
The Presidency conclusions were , as so often , pledges of economic reform in directly inverse proportion to acts of economic reform . 
But the optimists among our number note that the tone of these Presidency conclusions is different . 
All Council members accepted that environment policy can make an important contribution to jobs and growth . 
We are making progress and , combined with the prospect of an interinstitutional agreement on the financial perspectives and the economic growth that we now foresee , there is hope again for our Union . 
I welcome in particular the Commission 's decision this week to mount legal challenges to those flouting the rules of liberalisation , because that is the kind of action that we need from the Commission to make progress . 
The European Union is remarkably resilient . 
Progress may not be made in one area , but it springs up somewhere else : an energy policy for Europe , a good step forward ; or more countries wanting to join the eurozone . 
The drive for common endeavour may come now from the challenges from outwith , rather than conviction from within . 
But I hope that the Austrian Presidency and the Finnish Presidency that follows it can take this new spirit forward and help us to reconstruct a constitutional basis on which to build our Union for the future . 
My Group believes it is time to drop the focus of the spring Council on economic reform . 
You need three Councils a year . 
You need to discuss other issues -- important issues such as Belarus . 
You could have discussed , as proposed by some Member States , the issue of Guantánamo Bay , where EU residents are still kept . 
An unwillingness to upset the Americans prevented you from doing so . 
Let us see a bit more European spirit coming out of these Councils . 
Let us start to rebuild the Union with the active involvement of Member States . 
I was very surprised to see you , Mr Schüssel and Mr Poettering , and all of the glitterati of the European People 's Party in Rome , supporting the re-election campaign of a Prime Minister who has undermined Europe 's values at every turn ... 
frustrating progress in judicial cooperation , even judicial proceedings ; overstepping the borders of propriety , of a free and independent media , or even of electoral systems ; using the Presidency of the EU to embrace Vladimir Putin , ignoring Russia 's actions in Chechnya . 
If the Italians vote wisely on Sunday there will be a pro-European government in Rome and perhaps it can work together with the new government in Berlin to re-establish the equilibrium that we need in our Union and start to put Europe back on an even keel . 
The other Member States of the EU-15 have opted to apply national restrictions under the transnational arrangements . 
On the contrary , the immediate effect it had was of improving the profitability and competitiveness of the businesses concerned , raising their productivity and strengthening their financial position . 
In macroeconomic terms , the policy of opening up the labour market translates into a marked increase in the British growth rate . 
According to the expert reports available , migration of workers from the ten new Member States has helped to increase production and create new jobs and has substantially reduced the number of illegal workers . 
I welcome these positive benefits . 
The ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly has done some great work in deepening our ties with ACP countries and affords them a crucial link to our deliberations , particularly as we come to finally address our trade policies , which all too often hinder rather than help development . 
Scotland has been at the forefront of calls for change in 2005 , with the Make Poverty History march in Edinburgh , the G8 summit in Gleneagles in the summer , and of course we were delighted to host the ACP-EU meeting in Edinburgh . 
What we now need to see is our Member State governments putting our fine words into action , and making development policy not just a matter of doling out aid but of working with developing countries in fair trade , to all our betterment . 
While it is the sovereign right of countries to run themselves as they see fit , that presupposes that there is a fair and free society , and in Belarus this is clearly not the case . 
We in this House must play our part , as we did in the Orange Revolution itself , though today we must continue to support the forces of progress and democracy within the Ukraine . 
The EU is in the best position to play honest broker , adviser and even friend to the Ukrainians ; we must continue our engagement with this process and I am pleased to support this resolution today . 
Weak institutions and administrations with limited accountability often allow for the misuse of public goods by politicians or public officials . 
I believe that increasing the role of parliaments is vital to the advancement of reforms in public finance management and that there should be instituting or reinforcing mechanisms within parliament for bringing government to account . 
The extent to which aid and development funding , so well meant , encourages corruption is often very disturbing , and to ensure value for money for our taxpayers and the citizens of the recipient countries , we must continue to look into this . 
I wholeheartedly endorse the recommendations in this report and am happy to support it today . 
Mr President , I declare an interest in this debate as patron of the Peace in Kurdistan campaign and a board member of the EU-Turkey Civic Commission . 
I endorse utterly my group colleague Mr Özdemir 's remarks about dialogue and how this process is not black and white . 
All sides have their shortcomings and we in this House must continue to encourage where necessary , and criticise where necessary . 
We must also , I stress , keep an eye to our own integrity and ensure that legitimate concerns about the painfully slow progress of the peace process within Kurdistan and Turkey as a whole does not become a cipher for those within this House and within the EU who are more anti-Turkish EU membership than they are pro-democracy . 
The Copenhagen criteria constitute the roadmap . 
The Copenhagen criteria on recognition of cultural , historic and political rights are clear , they are already laid down . 
We in this House must keep our own hands clean . 
The EU as a champion of dialogue and democracy must ensure that we always remember our own principles and our own role as honest , impartial broker , able to help and criticise where necessary . 
Dr Ayman Nour was sentenced to five years ' imprisonment for the alleged crime of falsifying his political party 's registration documents . 
He came second in the last presidential elections and he remains in prison today where his health continues to deteriorate . 
It is positive , after a fashion , that his case will be reviewed by the Court of Cassation on 18 May 2006 , but we must keep a watchful eye on this trial . 
In recital I of the resolution we commit ourselves to an ad hoc delegation at least trying to see him in the event that the trial continues his incarceration . 
It is clear , however -- in the eyes of my group at least -- that he should be released forthwith , because the crimes of which he is accused and indeed convicted do not appear to stack up in reality . 
The Egyptian Government should be in no doubt that we will watch this case with interest . 
In paragraphs 7 and 8 of the resolution , which I would ask the Commissioner to comment on this afternoon , we call on the Commission to create a specific subcommittee on human rights in the framework of the EU-Egypt Association Agreement . 
There is a human rights deficit in Egypt that must be addressed . 
The creation of a specific committee to monitor and enforce the action plan will be a concrete way to give teeth to the warm words that this House too often produces . 
Egypt is a valued partner of the EU and this House in the Middle East peace process , an ally in so much and a partner in development , but we must acknowledge that Egypt does not meet our standards . 
We must pointedly , if necessary , use the Association Agreement to assist in the development and building-up of Egyptian civil society for the betterment of the Egyptian people and a more constructive degree of EU-Egyptian partnership . 
Mr President , there seem to be many different recollections but it is certainly my recollection that we agreed in the Conference of Presidents that there would not be a resolution . 
However , I rise to ask you to put an end to this and allow us to get on with our business this afternoon , either by requesting a vote in the House to proceed with the agenda as proposed , or by simply going ahead . 
The explosion at the Chernobyl power plant spewed radioactive waste over vast swathes of the former USSR and Western Europe , and rendered an area with a radius of 30 km uninhabitable to humankind . 
It is fitting that we express today our solidarity with the victims of that accident and that we recognise the serious impact that it had on so many lives . 
Official UN figures predicted up to 9 000 cancer-related deaths as a result of that accident . 
However , a Greenpeace report released last week estimated 93 000 , which could rise to around 200 000 if we include other related illnesses . 
I want to speak , however , of the future , not of the past . 
Chernobyl remains a symbol of the perils of nuclear fuel and the reason why we must work with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe that have nuclear reactors based on the same design , to render those as safe as possible while they must function , and take them out of commission as soon as we can . 
With finite resources fast depleting , Europe will have to radically re-examine its patterns of energy supply and consumption . 
This is especially true at a time of chronic instability in the Middle East , of alarming hikes in the price of crude oil , and increased competition for resources . 
If we are to avoid being 90 % dependent on Russian oil by 2020 , we have to achieve greater autonomy in energy supply and develop a common energy policy with an intelligent , balanced energy mix . 
Money invested in clean green technology is not money wasted and if Europe can lead the world in researching green technologies it will create more jobs , revive manufacturing , and generate greater export potential for our products . 
That is why my Group applauds the Council and the Austrian Presidency for backing plans to double the use of biomass , including organic waste , for energy purposes , allowing us to cut energy imports by over 6 % and bring up to 300 000 jobs to rural areas 
With overall consumption rising , greater energy efficiency combined with the renewables could generate around 25 % of our needs . 
We have got to increase that figure , we have got to make a genuine commitment to investment in technologies for the future . 
Investing in projects such as hydrogen fuel might have the potential to achieve oil savings equivalent to 13 % of global oil demand . 
Given the substantial contribution that nuclear power already makes to our energy autonomy , there must be renewed momentum to invest in safety , both to ensure that nuclear power stations produce less waste and present less risk and to develop Europe 's research into fusion energy through the Euratom framework and the experiment in Cadarache in France . 
Lenin believed that progress could be achieved only through socialism and electricity . 
History has judged him wrong on the first count but perhaps not on the second . 
Nobody denies that we need a sustainable and secure energy supply ; they disagree only on the mix . 
The anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster is a reminder of the challenges we face in delivering our energy requirements while minimising the risks . 
We owe it to the victims of Chernobyl to develop safe , reliable and sustainable sources of energy . 
I would like to recall the situation of the Palestinian people , who are at this time faced with hardships on a scale that we can not begin to comprehend . 
The EU decision to end direct funding for the democratically-elected Palestinian Authority is likely to have disastrous consequences for the delivery of basic services in cash-strapped Palestine . 
As a defender of human rights and an ` honest broker ' in the Middle East the EU should be consistent in its approach to third countries which flout international law . 
Therefore we should reconsider the decision to suspend GBP 340 million aid to the Palestinian authority in the light of the precedent of funding for successive Israeli governments . 
For its part , Hamas should recognise that its ability to fulfil its duties and serve the people will be linked to its willingness to renounce violence and recognise the rights of the people of Israel . 
I hope Hamas will commit to peaceful means . 
However , my view is that cooperation is the only viable policy option and that isolation will only exacerbate the desperate conditions in Palestine , conditions which give rise to frustrations and violence . 
I have serious concerns about the European budgetary procedures and no confidence in this system , but equally no evidence of wrongdoing or mishandling in the majority of cases . 
The only way to go on this is ` Not Proven ' . 
We need real improvement in the transparency of these accounts and in the way the EU administers funding . 
Only when we have a truly transparent system in all EU institutions and over all EU funds can we have full confidence in these accounts . 
Large amounts of European monies are actually spent and accounted for by Member States , local authorities and external organisations , not the European Institutions -- it is this that has left auditors unable to prove that the budget is correct , but equally unable to prove it is not . 
This is not the same as finding evidence of wrongdoing , and the anti-Europeans do the citizens of Europe no favours by pretending that it is . 
There is much in the EU that needs reformed , but it is not all bad . 
If we were to change the name of this delegation we should do the same for all those countries that have complex names . 
It is established practice that we use the geographic names of counterparts . 
I am not against revisiting this practice but we should do it for all countries . 
I welcome the fact that the Convention recognises the distinctive nature of cultural goods and services as transmitters of values and identity and it establishes that they transcend their commercial dimension legitimising thus domestic and international cultural policies . 
It is vital that a full investigation be held into this highly unsatisfactory situation . 
Parliament must do everything possible to safeguard taxpayers ' money . 
As a member of the Committee on Petitions I value the work of the Ombudsman and believe he carries out his duties effectively and diligently . 
It is clear from the report that the Centre was diligent in spending its existing resources . 
However , with racist political parties on the rise and a reported increase in racist incidents there is a strong argument for increasing the Centre 's funding . 
However , with the flow of drugs apparently on the increase and the level of addiction rising particularly among some of Europe 's most deprived communities I would like to see the Centre raise its profile and make a more significant contribution to tackling these problems . 
I believe the agency has a vital role to play in ensuring that new drugs get to the market safely and with the minimum duplication of effort on the part of individual Member States . 
The new system should be installed in all new cars from 2009 , saving up to 2 500 lives a year across Europe . 
A sensor in the car is activated by the impact of a collision and sends information on the location , speed and owner of the car through the pan-European emergency number 112 to the nearest police , fire and medical services . 
I welcome this report as it will save those hundreds of car crash victims who find themselves trapped in their cars and unable to reach their mobile phones because of their injuries . 
Although the smart car system will cost EUR 4 billion it will ultimately save EUR 26 billion across Europe in accident and congestion costs . 
According to the Commission , the smart car system could reduce the numbers of fatalities on the roads by as much as 15 % . 
Mr President , first I should like to add the support of my group for the statements made by Mr Schulz and Mr Poettering in favour of the Austrian Presidency looking again at its availability . 
The Conference of Presidents last week agreed on only two subjects for debate in our regular ` urgencies ' slot on Thursday ; normally we debate three . 
My group put forward a proposal to the Conference of Presidents that we debate the issue of Taiwan 's membership of the World Health Organisation . 
That proposal fell because it was not supported by either of the two major groups -- the PPE-DE Group and the PSE Group . 
Health is widely considered these days to be a human right . 
It is an issue that needs our discussion and therefore my group wishes to propose to this House that we use the third slot available on Thursday afternoon for consideration of the issue of Taiwan 's participation in the World Health Organisation . 
. I welcome this report , which should lead to more honest and understandable food labelling . 
It should also make it difficult for companies to brand their products in a misleading way . 
. I voted against the EC-Morocco fishing deal because the people of Western Sahara are still under Moroccan occupation and have had no say over the agreement which allows fishing in their territorial waters . 
I believe that the Saharawi people should have rights over their territorial waters . 
It is for this reason that the EC-Morocco fish agreement should not include the waters of Western Sahara , as the people have no power to opt in or out of the agreement . 
I do not support an agreement on trade that violates the rights of other communities to determine the use of their own resources . 
It is a poor show that the EU , usually a guardian of the rule of law , is in this case using technicalities and weasel words to justify making ourselves in effect complicit in an illegal occupation . 
I voted against this poor report and am saddened that the House approved it . 
Coming from Scotland , it saddens me that the Scottish Parliament is responsible for so many areas of life yet is effectively shut out of the EU deliberations as the definition of subsidiarity too often effectively stops at the member state capital . 
I believe this report represents a step forward , but we in the EU still have our work to do . 
. -- Mr President , I would like to pay tribute to Commissioner Rehn for his balanced and thorough assessment and his competent handling of this dossier . 
I also commend Anca Boagiu and Meglena Kuneva and their predecessors as Ministers for EU Integration for their unstinting hard work . 
The author Mark Twain observed , ` We can change the world or ourselves , but the latter is more difficult ' . 
Tearing down the Berlin Wall was the easy part . 
Building a new democratic culture takes much longer . 
But the bricks of effort and the mortar of persistence are working . 
The decision to proceed in 2007 , with appropriate provisos , is the right one . 
The Commission should not , in my group 's view , revisit its decision in the autumn , except in the gravest of circumstances . 
We are concerned that Romania and Bulgaria should be judged no more or less harshly than previous newcomers . 
Our monitoring must be in line with current treaty provisions and legislation in force . 
We therefore take very seriously the Commission 's expression of serious concern about continuing corruption and failure of the rule of law -- areas which need urgent further action . 
What is most important to the health of a society is the direction in which its face is set . 
Bulgaria and Romania are looking and moving in the right direction . 
Can that be said of all current Member States ? 
My group has always been wary of those who would pander to the fashionable anxiety about enlargement , making strangers of peoples who will soon be fellow citizens . 
I was delighted , therefore , to hear that Mr Poettering has defied some in his own party and thrown his weight firmly behind future enlargement . 
It gives added salience to his group 's decision to meet last week in a city called Split . 
I appeal to the faint hearts on the right to look at what has been achieved . 
Has not enlargement been the European Union 's greatest success story , its crown jewels ? 
Commissioner Spidla 's report on transitional arrangements shows that enlargement has brought more jobs and higher economic growth , particularly in those countries that gave open access to their labour markets . 
But far beyond economic considerations , welcoming new Members has enriched the culture of our Union . 
Bulgaria and Romania will be treasured assets , if only we give them half a chance . 
So I urge all Bulgarians and Romanians to work together with government to ensure the best possible outcome and avoid any delay to entry , not least because reform demanded to join the Union is the means to raise standards of living , quality of life , and security at home . 
I urge all colleagues in this House to show solidarity and demonstrate to the Bulgarians and the Romanians that they do not walk alone . 
What would it cost their customers , and what would be the impact on availability of organic food for the customers ? 
Can she give me those figures ? 
I am aware that Commissioner Mandelson has pushed financial services quite hard and I am pleased to hear from the Commissioner that he is intending to do so . 
Does he agree with me that it is somewhat ironic that a country like India , which has call centres from European companies selling insurance , mortgages , loans and other financial services to Europeans , denies those very services to its own people , and will he press India in particular to reform its protectionist system for financial services ? 
Firstly , I welcome your reply , Commissioner . 
I would urge you along the route of certification . 
You are right , it would be quite wrong if , for example , the use of palm oil led to the destruction of forests in Indonesia . 
So I would push you in that direction . 
The other problem we have with biofuels is that while we are getting cars produced that can take biofuels and getting drivers willing to drive the cars , there is still a great difficulty in most parts of Europe in finding petrol stations that will stock biofuels and enable the consumer to take advantage of this ecologically friendly system . 
Will he do what he can to encourage more petrol companies to have a biofuel pump in their stations ? 
Mr President , it is said that a bad compromise leaves some people happy and some people sad , while a good compromise leaves everybody pretty well unsatisfied . 
It would appear , to my group at least , that according to that definition this is a very good compromise . 
The question for my group , however , is whether this interinstitutional agreement answers the big questions facing Europe at the moment . 
Our judgement is that it does not . 
It looks increasingly clear that we are in a minority , but we will be voting against this deal on the grounds that we could do so much better for our citizens . 
This interinstitutional agreement locks us into never-ending wrangling between the net contributors , the net recipients , old Europe , new Europe , the Council and Parliament , at a time when we must be one Europe or we risk being no Europe . 
We are not without ideas . 
The Sapir report contained a number of ideas that merited consideration . 
They have been put to one side in favour of continuing as we are , when Europe deserves so much better . 
On those grounds , my group will be voting against . 
TSEs are brain disorders in animals and include sub-categories such as BSE and other diseases . 
The aim is to streamline the risk categories while improving EU animal health controls and maintaining consumer protection . 
I welcome this report by my colleague Richard Howitt on Human Rights in the World 2005 . 
He is right to draw to our attention to the fact that while the EU is vigorous in promoting human rights , its efforts are largely confined to specialist and one-off representations . 
There is , sadly , a general failure by the EU to address human rights concerns systematically and continuously with respect to third countries and to mainstream human rights policy with respect to the Union 's trade , development , and other external policies with such countries . 
We need a common , consistent and transparent policy for dealing with abuses of human rights in third countries . 
As the largest provider of overseas development assistance , a key trading partner for the LDCs and an important provider of technical and financial assistance , the EU has an obligation to ensure that our actions add value , are properly coordinated and are coherent . 
The Committee on International Trade has three main concerns about the packages in general and the DCECI Instrument in particular . 
Our second concern is the apparent downplaying of the importance of trade in the package as a whole . 
We want trade-related assistance to be given a clearer focus and wonder , in the absence of a thematic programme , how trade will be handled in the proposed structures for the new instruments . 
Finally , we share the other committees ' concerns about the erosion of parliamentary control and believe that Parliament was right to reject the original 2004 proposals . 
The breakthrough we have achieved with the Council and the Commission on review and expiry clauses should lead to a positive vote tomorrow , but Parliament must now be fully engaged in setting policy priorities throughout the package . 
It is therefore vital , as the Commission rightly says , that these resources are clearly targeted at our priorities . 
The Committee on International Trade fully supports the Commission 's efforts to improve policy coherence between the Community 's external and internal policies . 
In our opinion , all new policy initiatives regarding the internal market should be carefully assessed in the light of their external impact . 
The International Trade Committee supports the rapporteur in calling for the Commission to target resources at the new global challenges we face , particularly the rise of India and China . 
It wishes to emphasise the contribution that a successful Doha Round could make to freeing up resources . 
Firstly , the elimination of all forms of agricultural export subsidy by 2013 would bring significant budgetary savings . 
Secondly , a successful round would lead to growth of the European Union economy as a whole and therefore help the EU budget grow . 
A key component in making a success of the Doha Round is to persuade the developing countries to sign up for Doha . 
In this respect , the EU has recognised that for them to get something out of Doha , they need to be linked into the world trading system . 
At the G8 Summit last July , President Barroso promised EUR 1 billion a year in trade-related assistance . 
If this is not delivered , the cynicism displayed by the developing countries at WTO talks will simply grow . 
We would like to suggest both to the rapporteur , in terms of the conclusions the committee draws from this report , and to the Commission , that the latter should report to us annually on how it is spending the EUR 1 billion that Mr Barroso promised on trade-related assistance , so that we can see that being delivered on a transparent basis . 
As draftsman for the INTA Committee , I have worked with colleagues to ensure that the future shape of this instrument reflects the progressive gains made by the European Parliament over the years in terms of poverty alleviation and empowerment . 
I am glad to see we have achieved breakthroughs on review and expiry clauses to allow for better modifications and reporting . 
I firmly believe that , as the legislative authority , the European Parliament must continue to have a role both in the setting of priorities and through a call-back arrangement . 
Our citizens , who have mandated us to set policies and scrutinise the executive , expect no less . 
Establishing clear priorities has become increasingly important in the case of the external actions budget heading given the cuts amounting to around 20 % in funds committed . 
More than ever the trade dimension continues to impact on domestic political priorities in the budget . 
If the Doha Round is successfully concluded , the conditional agreement on the definitive elimination of all forms of agricultural export subsidies by 2013 would translate into incremental yearly EC budget savings that are estimated to be around EUR 3 500-4 000 million per year , depending on internal and world market prices , as of 2013 . 
As rapporteur for a forthcoming report on trade-related assistance and draftsman for the annual strategic priorities , I have called for greater transparency in the funding of the so-called ` Barroso ' billion , committed to support the trading capacity of developing countries . 
This pledge should not involve cosmetic re-labelling of funds given to infrastructure . 
The Commission must commit to producing an annual report on aid for trade to enable Parliament to scrutinise these funds and assure that they are truly additional . 
Nepal 's problems demonstrate the weakness of the EU , but the recent reinstatement of democracy gives us the opportunity to demonstrate our strengths . 
In the absence of a collective will to find a solution in Nepal , we can not impose one . 
But now we have the opportunity to guide , to assist and to advise all the democratic forces in Nepal as they continue their long , tortuous journey towards a multi-party democracy and respect for human rights . 
This resolution contains a number of worthy ideas , in particular the establishment of an international contact group and continued engagement of the international community within Nepal , guiding all these democratic forces . 
We must continue to support the democratic growth of Nepal . 
We can not criticise and we must have a clean pair of hands in our negotiations with all parties in that country . 
I commend every mechanism within this resolution to the House and I hope to hear from the Commissioner that the Commission will continue to support us in this aim . 
My group welcomes the presence here of Mr Verhofstadt , both as a prime minister and as one of the major architects of European reform . 
As you recognised , Prime Minister , in the Laeken Declaration in 2001 , the European Union has been talking more to itself than to its citizens . 
Yet five years after your Presidency , the task of reconnecting Europe with its citizens still shows too little evidence of progress . 
Indeed , just yesterday a survey showed that 82 % -- more than four in five -- of our fellow citizens feel that government at European level fails to communicate with them . 
Despite the year-long period of reflection -- and eight months into the Commission 's much vaunted plans -- little has been broadcast beyond the bastions of the Berlaymont . 
In fact , more of them trust the European institutions than their own national governments . 
So here is Europe 's mandate from the people : a mandate to deliver the reforms needed to meet challenges like energy security , migration , climate change and organised crime , which individual Member States struggle to deal with under the current set-up . 
Greater coordination of economic policies , as you recommended , Mr Verhofstadt , would certainly help , as would greater defence coordination . 
Mr Barroso has pointed to the need for practical achievements to reinforce our links with citizens and rally them to our cause . 
But this ` Europe of Projects ' can never get off the ground until Member State governments explain to their people what they are doing together in Brussels and why , and until we give the Union the money and the legal powers to push through initiatives like the common energy policy , which faces an uphill struggle against blocking forces in the Council , as too do many other initiatives in the field of justice and home affairs , for example , where the absence of qualified majority voting so often results in stalemate . 
Quibbling over the clause in the Treaty will resolve little , and change rests , in any case , on the same unanimity which has led to inaction up to now . 
As you said , Prime Minister , it is the Constitution -- as practical as it is ideological -- that can best put the institutional building blocks in place to move Europe forward . 
It is all very well for Mr Schulz to rail against it , but it was his Socialists in France who helped to kill the Constitution in that referendum . 
We need to make our period of reflection a period of analysis , producing proposals on how to proceed . 
This month 's Interparliamentary Conference on the Future of Europe kick-started the process . 
Today 's sitting is the logical extension , and let us hear more debates with national leaders . 
On Europe Day , Estonia became the fifteenth state to ratify the Constitution and Finland will soon follow . 
To me , that Treaty looks far from dead , and with the political courage of leaders like Guy Verhofstadt , Angela Merkel and Romano Prodi -- leaders committed to Europe -- then Europe 's future is surely brighter . 
As the Prime Minister told us , we have a lot of work to do . 
The salient issues of the report focus on the fact that whilst there has been a general rise of GDP per capita on a global scale , there has also been an increase in the number of people living beneath the poverty line . 
The report therefore considers that a radical change of policy is needed both in developed and developing countries in order to alleviate the problems behind this perpetual increase in poverty . 
The message is therefore very clear : when we are considering the merits of liberalisation we should not lose sight of the concrete reality of the gaps in wealth in the world today . 
Mr President , the success of this week 's Summit rests , first and foremost , on delivering on one concept : democratisation . 
Democracy , transparency and accountability must be the building blocks that shape the future of our Union . 
Without a clear commitment to all three , we will be left with the piecemeal solutions that have stalled reform efforts hitherto and reinforced public distrust in the Union . 
Europe will be built with the support of the citizens or not at all . 
Addressing the democratic deficit means an end to the rubber-stamping of regulations behind closed doors . 
We still look forward to receiving them , Mr Barroso . 
We call on the Council to announce that all discussions on lawmaking by codecision will be open to public view . 
We know -- as the journalist Meg Greenfield wrote -- that everybody is for democracy in principle , but it is only in practice that it gives rise to stiff objections . 
We note that , whatever they say in public , those two old secret plotters , Britain and France -- the two countries that nurtured democracy at national level and yet with her offspring now suffer amnesia -- are still resisting openness in the Council . 
It is up to the other countries to pull them kicking and screaming into the 21st century . 
In the short term , the Council must put its faith in Parliament and allow us greater legislative scrutiny . 
Key initiatives , particularly in justice and home affairs , are often hampered by the absence of qualified majority voting and they end in stalemate . 
The time has come to apply the clause of Article 42 and shift policies from the third to the first pillar , as proposed by the Commission in its Communication of 10 May , for our reputation -- indeed our influence -- rests on upholding values like democracy , liberty and respect for human rights . 
Data protection in the third pillar is necessary to ensure protection of personal data . 
Likewise , minimum procedural guarantees for the European Arrest Warrant -- which I had the honour to pilot through this House -- have been held up in the Council since 2001 . 
We want to see progress on all of those issues in order to make the European Union more democratic and more effective . 
Europe demands no less than an unequivocal drive to democratise decision-making . 
In the long term , only a constitutional treaty -- as practical as it is ideological -- can provide the institutional framework to democratise Europe . 
But it is also time to recognise that the sixteenth and final Member State likely to ratify the Constitution in its current form is Finland . 
We must recognise that France , the Netherlands and the United Kingdom will never ratify the 2004 text . 
Denmark , Ireland and Sweden can not ratify in current circumstances . 
The Czech Republic and Poland choose not to ratify , and Portugal will find it almost impossible , while committed to a referendum . 
So there are two options : renegotiation or oblivion . 
The sooner we take steps to make structural and substantive improvements to that text and address public concern , the better . 
You are right -- they are all shareholders in the enterprise , but they have been gripped by a fad for short-termism , and anyway the markets are falling . 
We need to hammer home to the Member States just how much they need the European Union . 
My group thanks the Austrian Presidency for its good work thus far . 
We wish you success with other important items on your agenda : migration and other aspects of the Hague Programme ; social and economic policy ; the fundamental rights agency that we so badly need . 
Make sure too that our Foreign Ministers have aid to Palestine and CIA renditions on their agenda . 
I welcome this report , which stipulates that the fight against discrimination must be based on education . 
The report encourages the promotion of best practices and campaigns targeting the general public and those areas and sectors where discrimination takes place . 
The report explains that positive steps should be taken to overhaul recruitment policies and practices in order to remove those that impede disadvantaged groups from participating and playing an important role in society . 
I regret that the Commission is not planning at this stage to draw up comprehensive legislation to combat discrimination given that traditional national minorities urgently need a framework policy standard to create effective participation in decision-making processes concerning their identity , not only to overcome the double standards established by the Copenhagen criteria but also to combat a lack of any rules in the Member States . 
It is a vitally important network of mostly small , mostly family-run businesses , which are the lifeblood of most of our small coastal communities . 
Around the coast and the many islands of Scotland , it is a sector that is of the utmost importance and it undoubtedly has not benefited from the political support it deserves . 
Unfortunately , though , Scotland 's offshore fishing industry has not had a happy experience as a result of the common fisheries policy . 
So there is not a great demand -- to put it mildly -- for new EU legislation specific to inshore fisheries . 
However , support for initiatives in , for example , the fields of vessel safety , fuel economy , training and investment funding is worth pursuing at local and EU level , through the European Fisheries Fund . 
In Scotland it is not just the CFP that has been bad for our fishing communities . 
Over the years , the Scottish and UK Governments too have failed to support EU initiatives by cofinancing . 
I hope that if , as a result of this report , we move towards some specific new programmes to assist coastal fishing , the Scottish Government will be persuaded to provide the necessary support . 
I would like to see those communities returned to a state where the young and the future generations have some hope of being able to follow in that tradition . 
Mr President , I would echo the words of my group colleague , Mr Romeva i Rueda , and emphasise everything that he and others have said on the situation in East Timor . 
Here we are again in an urgency debate in which the few Members present will largely agree that it is bad that bad things are happening somewhere in the world . 
The Commissioner will doubtless largely agree with us . 
Though I would suggest -- and I would ask the Commissioner for his view -- that it would be useful for the Council to be represented in these debates in order to make them that little bit more relevant and meaningful . 
As I say , I emphasise and reiterate the views of Mr Tannock and Mr Romeva i Rueda about the situation in East Timor . 
This motion for a resolution has a number of concrete steps that we ourselves can take to alleviate the situation in that troubled part of the world . 
It is tragic that a country has regained its independence in order to collapse into such anarchy and that , so many years later , it is still not that much further forward . 
We have a number of ideas in this motion for a resolution to help alleviate that and I hope we will be acting on them . 
Mr President , we are correct and honour-bound in this Chamber to take note of and highlight human rights abuses in Syria . 
I grew up in the Middle East , so I know the region pretty well . 
We also need to take account of the wider backdrop to these issues . 
We are not seen as being the good guys . 
We need to do more to put our own house in order , as well as look after Syria 's . 
The first is : is there anything in the wording of paragraphs 9 and 26 that in any way gives comfort to the Berlin savings banks and the German savings banks system that they will be in any way stultified for the future ? 
I ask that question of Mr McCreevy . 
The second is whether we really think that yet another committee of wise men -- asked for in the last paragraph -- is necessary to look at this . 
Mr President , I do not think my question on the consolidation of the banking sector and whether there was anything in the Muscat report that could give comfort to the stultifying of the savings bank structure in Germany was answered . 
Mr President , today represents the end of a good piece of work by this Parliament , a good piece of work by the Commission and a rather less good piece of work by the Council , in particular a number of Member States within it -- sadly , my own among them . 
I assure colleagues that I will not start apologising for the short-sighted mean-spiritedness of the United Kingdom Government , because I have only a minute of speaking time . 
This is not the package we wanted , but there is more in it to like than dislike . 
The strengthening of the partnership principle continues to need defence . 
Statistical effect is of crucial importance to regions across Europe . 
Accessibility for disabled people and crucially the abolition of double standards between so-called ` old ' and ` new ' Member States are all to be welcomed . 
Europe is not about coal and steel any more ; it is not about agriculture and fisheries : it is about solidarity and cohesion , it is about where the EU adds value to regional development across the EU . 
This package takes us forward and my group will be supporting it . 
The main points raised in this report cover the most important measures of reducing the harmful effects of battery waste . 
The report requires Member States to ensure that manufacturers design appliances in such a way that spent batteries and accumulators can be readily removed , and that appliances be accompanied by instructions containing consumer information . 
Producers will now be required to finance any net costs arising from the collection , treatment and recycling of waste batteries and accumulators , regardless of when these were placed on the market . 
The capacity labelling of all portable and automotive batteries and accumulators will be introduced no later than 12 months after the date of transposition of the directive . 
I agree that the report should promote research to make batteries less environmentally harmful and to encourage the development of new recycling technologies and that a 50 % recycling target should be set for non-hazardous batteries . 
This report has paid particular attention to enabling a greater number of disadvantaged and underdeveloped regions to catch up with those which are more developed . 
The regional competitiveness and employment objective also remains a central element of regional policy and a high level of available resources will be concentrated on those priorities . 
Parliament has cooperated in negotiations with both the Presidency and the European Commission and one of Parliament 's main achievements was obtaining a substantial increase in the financial resources dedicated to territorial cohesion , an important objective in the context of enlargement . 
Parliament has not only been successful in the above-mentioned points , but its voice has also been heard in the areas of partnership . 
Under the General Regulation , greater involvement of civil society and NGOs is desirable . 
The Commission will make a statement on the abuse of Structural Funds by organised crime . 
These amendments also called for special account to be taken of the specific situation of small and medium-sized ship owners . 
Therefore I voted against the final report because I believe that in many respects the Commission 's original proposal was better suited to lowering maritime transport costs , without endangering the reliability of services . 
I could not agree with the rapporteur 's view about the UK abatement . 
I remain convinced that this is justified under the present system and that wider reforms need to be undertaken before any further changes are made to the UK rebate . 
I fully support action to combat the climate change impact of aviation . 
I also support the principle of the inclusion of aviation emissions in the Emissions Trading Scheme and hope the Commission will come forward with a workable proposal . 
I abstained on a number of paragraphs simply because I do not believe the impact of the proposals has yet been fully evaluated . 
For example , I abstained on the call for an end to VAT exemption for air transport because it is not clear if this will help tackle climate change or merely hurt the less well-off traveller . 
Mr President , President-in-Office , as a representative of the European Free Alliance stateless nations , such as Scotland , Wales and Catalonia , I note that Finland , as well as leading the EU and celebrating a hundred years of restored independence , was the first nation in the world to grant full political rights to women . 
As more and more small countries such as Catalonia , Montenegro and my own , Scotland , seek to reassert our right to independence , we look to Finland and the other small Member States of the EU as role models . 
I welcome your stated commitment to transparency and subsidiarity . 
However , if we are really to restore public credibility in the European Union , as we both want , we must do more than simply retable the existing Constitution text . 
EU credibility in Scotland , for instance , will not improve if the disastrous common fisheries policy is further entrenched . 
This wasteful trek that we must make to Strasbourg each month does not help . 
The situation in Palestine is critical . 
All humane individuals want to see the Israeli soldier who has been taken hostage released safe and well . 
However , his abduction should not be used by Israel as an excuse for extreme action in Gaza and the West Bank . 
I urge Israel to keep all its actions in line with international law . 
The humanitarian situation in the Palestinian territories must be addressed urgently . 
Electricity should immediately be restored to all homes , medical supplies provided and food shortages addressed . 
Both parties should be encouraged to take measures to build mutual confidence and reduce tension . 
A clear statement from both sides that a negotiated two-state solution is the only viable future for the region would go a long way to improving the present situation . 
It is for that reason that I support the report aimed at making cross-border assistance as effective as possible . 
Combating crime and protecting law and order falls essentially within the competence of the Member States . 
This proposal is solely aimed at improving cooperation between the different Member States in this area by establishing a uniform , transparent and effective framework for the exchange of information . 
It is primarily aimed at maintaining law and order and security and preventing and combating criminal offences during international events attended by large numbers of people from more than one Member State . 
Every year , before 31 January , the Council is to produce a review of international assistance provided during the previous calendar year . 
The review will comprise an overview of the international events that have taken place , an overview of the assistance provided and received and an overview of the main difficulties observed by the Member States and recommendations as to how such difficulties could be resolved . 
This will ensure that national police forces work in the most effective way possible . 
However , the EU still continues to lag behind the US and Japan . 
I welcome this report , which attempts to improve the EU 's performance in three main areas . 
Firstly , through financing and encouraging the creation of new knowledge : this will be facilitated through promoting the spirit of entrepreneurship , providing lifelong learning and ICT training and improving the image of scientific research as a rewarding career path . 
Furthermore , organisations who continue to treat women as inferior workers should be named and shamed . 
Thirdly , Europe is failing to finance knowledge . 
It is essential that a large proportion of EU budget resources for financial instruments are aimed at enhancing SME finance and tackling market failures . 
Europe must now recognise its faults so that it can fulfil the aims of the Lisbon Agenda . 
I welcome this report , which outlines the preventive steps that should be taken in health and veterinary care to protect workers from injuries caused by needles and other medical sharps . 
This includes written instructions at the workplace and training for all workers , especially those who perform cannulation . 
Effective response and follow-up to accidents or incidents is also outlined in the report , including rapid post-exposure prophylaxis . 
Furthermore , all workers who might come into contact with needles and other medical sharps are to be offered vaccination against hepatitis B. 
Although there were concerns initially about the legal base of this instrument , it was eventually agreed that it should be based dually on development cooperation and economic , financial and technical cooperation . 
I support Development Committee colleagues in their concerns that the inclusion of peace-support measures in this instrument should not bleed funds from the development budget . 
Parliament took the view that codecision acts , in which Council and Parliament can jointly delegate implementing measures , implied that they should both be involved in defining the procedures for exercising delegated powers and that they should have equal rights regarding retrieval or call back . 
The Council , however , argued that Article 202 of the EC Treaty remained unchanged , providing for the Council ( alone ) to define the system for implementing powers . 
The key step forward for Parliament which is possible now as an outcome of negotiations with the Council and the Commission , is that Parliament will be able to block the adoption of ` quasi-legislative ' implementing measures to which it objects . 
If it does so , the Commission can make a new proposal or table draft legislation . 
I welcome this report ´ , as it expands the powers of the European Parliament and enables it be an ever more effective and democratic institution . 
I have support for a number of conclusions for this report , namely that there should be adequate consumer information , a fair producer price and transparency throughout the supply chain . 
I sought to amend the report to make sure that the conditions of production play a full part in the notion of Fair Trade through the need to respect the eight core ILO conventions . 
I also submitted an amendment urging the Commission to liaise with the international Fair Trade movement in supporting clear and widely-applicable criteria against which consumer assurance schemes can be assessed , so as to support consumer confidence in such schemes . 
Given the existence of several national schemes recognised by the consumer I would not at present support an EU-wide Fair Trade mark . 
However , I think this option should be considered in the event that a proliferation of standards and marks leads to confusion among consumers . 
Mr President , it is clear that the World Trade talks are in serious crisis , but I hope Members will not talk us into an assured failure . 
It is clear that a successful round depends on tackling agriculture . 
With up to 85 % of their populations living in rural areas it is not surprising that the world 's poorest countries will judge any package on the basis of its impact on their farmers . 
What I find more baffling , frankly even inexplicable , is the notion that the talks could flounder on the US and to a lesser extent the EU position on agriculture . 
Agriculture represents only 2 % of our wealth , therefore it seems perverse to make this a sticking point when we have so much to gain from improved non-market agricultural access and in particular from services liberalisation . 
Since the beginning of the Doha round , the EU has undergone substantial CAP reform . 
In Hong Kong we offered to end agricultural export subsidies by 2013 ; our Everything but Arms scheme offers duty-free access for products from the poorest countries . 
While I believe we can and should go further and I commend the Commissioner for his flexibility , particularly the flexibility he showed in Geneva , this is a flexibility that is sadly lacking in our negotiating and trading partners . 
What I would like to ask the Commissioner , given his extensive contacts with other negotiators , is whether he can tell this House what sort of package he believes it is necessary for the United States to put on the table in order to break this log-jam . 
Susan Schwab has indicated that she remains committed to a successful outcome . 
What does she need to bring to the table to show that the US is prepared to put its farm subsidies where its mouth is ? 
I dare say we will also have considerable agreement from the Commissioner , though I would point out that the Commission usually does agree with us and that is encouraging . 
As a fellow native of the British Isles -- although I come from the Scottish European rather than the Anglo-Saxon political tradition -- I would ask Commissioner Mandelson to engage in some discussion with us today , unlike his Commissioner colleagues . 
Would he outline in particular what the Commission thinks of paragraphs 8 and 6 of this motion for a resolution and , crucially , what the Commission is going to do about them ? 
It is difficult to look at Somalia and feel anything but sadness and frustration . 
Military engagement is not our way . 
We do not have the stomach or the appetite for it , or indeed the wherewithal for such action . 
As a Scot , I look with admiration at the role that Sweden and Norway , small independent Northern European countries , have played in promoting dialogue within Somalia and the parties there . 
As a humanitarian , I look with pride at the humanitarian aid we have given . 
Continued engagement in dialogue , sweetened by aid to those most in need , is the European way , and in the long term that is far and away the most successful . 
Right now Somalia has taken a turn for the worse . 
Hopefully Parliament , together with the Commission and the Council , can help to bring it back on track . 
I look forward to hearing from our Commissioner as to how the Commission will spearhead those efforts , and I assure him of this House 's support . 
We , in Scotland , an oil-producing maritime nation , have a live debate on proposals to transfer oil from ship to ship at sea , in an area of special scientific interest covered by the Birds Directive , the River Forth , just north of Edinburgh . 
This is an area precious to Scotland 's natural environment . 
There is almost total opposition to these proposals in Scotland and yet the United Kingdom Maritime and Coastguard Agency just yesterday gave its approval for these potentially disastrous plans to go forward . 
Fortunately , the EU can take a bigger view . 
Commissioner Dimas has launched an investigation into the potential environmental consequences of these proposals and I hope his investigation will stop these proposals from being implemented . 
Mr President , I could not disagree more with the previous speaker , Mrs McGuinness , on the point she made about the poor . 
The alternative to a successful Doha Round is sadly already emerging . 
It is a backward step to a world of unequal and exclusive bilateral deals : deals that are already strong-arming many poor countries into accepting lesser terms on market access and intellectual property rights ; deals that are leaving the poorest countries out in the cold . 
In the short term , as others have said , we need to rescue the gains made at Hong Kong : the landmark agreement to end export subsidies by 2013 ; duty - and quota-free access for the poorest countries , modelled on the EU 's pioneering ` Everything But Arms ' scheme ; as well as a substantial commitment to expanding aid for trade to improve supply-side capacity and trade-related infrastructures in the LDCs . 
I commend the Commissioner on the flexibility he has shown since the collapse of the single undertaking in seeking to salvage the development package -- a flexibility again , I am afraid , lacking in some of our negotiating partners . 
Amid the stock-taking at the WTO , the recent report of that organisation 's task force on Aid for Trade is timely . 
The faltering of the Doha talks and the disillusion surrounding their aims means that Aid for Trade is now more politically apposite than ever . 
It is in the interests of all countries , developed and advanced developing , to commit funds multilaterally to ensure that the appropriate investments are made in trade-related infrastructure to allow the poorest countries to trade their way out of poverty . 
I look forward to the EU -- and the Commission in particular -- taking a lead on these issues . 
Yes , it costs money to translate our workings , but it is a crucial component of mutual respect that each language has equal dignity to all others . 
Of course , it remains open to groups of MEPs to find other ways of working , this already happens and I would expect that process to continue and expand . 
As an institution we must maintain equal access for all , to do otherwise would undermine our democratic foundations . 
The European Parliament is the only parliament in the world which has no say over where it sits . 
This has to change once and for all . 
The proposal to allow ship-to-ship oil transfers in the Firth of Forth is something I have been campaigning strongly against . 
I have been in constant communication with the European Commission regarding these controversial transfers and it is aware of the strength of local feeling in Fife , as well as the very grave risks to the local environment . 
They have told me that the transfer of oil between vessels entails a considerable risk of oil being spilt into the sea . 
We can not allow ship-to-ship oil transfers to go ahead . 
I urge the rapporteur and the Commission to press for an early conclusion to be reached by the sub-committee assessing the risks attached to pollution from hydrocarbons . 
I also voted in favour of the amendment which includes the fight against domestic violence in the Daphne programme . 
I welcome the overwhelming vote in favour of the report , and hope that the programme will succeed in strengthening the ongoing fight against violence . 
Physical , sexual and psychological violence against children , young people and women , including threats of such acts , coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty , whether occurring in public or private life , should not be tolerated throughout the EU and should be seen as constituting a breach of their right to life , safety , freedom , dignity and physical and emotional integrity . 
Member States also need to recognise that genital mutilation constitutes a particular form of violence against women with short-term and long-term detrimental effects on their health , and that the main victims are members of minority communities . 
In order to achieve the objectives of this report , I agree that clear and credible targets are required , such as halving the number of people who fall victim to violence and human trafficking over the next ten years . 
I welcome the establishment of a think-tank to provide guidelines to the Commission on the social , cultural and political context as regards the selection of projects and complementary actions which will aid the Daphne II programme significantly . 
The Daphne programme provides an important tool in fighting against violence . 
In Scotland the ` zero tolerance ' campaign highlighted that as many as one in three women had been affected by domestic violence . 
We have to do all that we can to condemn violence against women and children . 
Only by working together can we achieve an end to these crimes . 
Specifically , I look forward to the day when an independent Scottish government has the power over revenue-raising through taxation , including car taxation which , in Scotland , must take due account of the fact that car transport is absolutely essential to residents throughout our rural areas . 
Where I have much sympathy with the ideas in this report , it is important to consider also whether they should be dealt with at EU level . 
I believe they should not , so have accordingly abstained on the key provisions of this report which suggest otherwise . 
Although I agree that we must reduce environmental pollution , I believe that taxation should be dealt with at Member State level . 
Commissioner , I wonder whether you saw in the press this week -- certainly in the British press -- reports of a plan by a German entrepreneur to start smoking flights from Europe to Asia . 
Firstly , does the Commissioner condemn this and , secondly , is there anything the Commission can do legally to stop this from happening ? 
Would the Commissioner accept that his warm words on small and medium-sized enterprises would have more credibility if our own research funds did not discriminate against small companies ? 
I know of a case of two companies -- one large and one small -- in the same programme , where the large company is audited at the end of the programme and receives its grants in advance , whereas the small company has to have an annual audit , at its own expense , and receives its money in arrears . 
Does the Commissioner not accept that this is a reversal of what the priorities should be ? 
The Commissioner mentioned that he was concerned about birds threatened with extinction . 
He will be aware , however , that I and one of my constituents have written to him several times about the case of a legitimate and legal importer of birds from the United States , legally taken in the United States , who is being put out of business because of this ban -- which is a ban for health reasons , for chickens , and which is not relevant to these particular wild birds in the United States . 
They are legal , legitimate and do not pose health risks . 
Why is the Commissioner imposing this draconian measure on small businesses in Europe ? 
In the EU we can balance the single market with social justice . 
We must do all that we can to keep this balance . 
I welcome the conclusions of this report and am very happy to support them . 
The report today , although an own-initiative report , allows mental health to be placed on the European political agenda . 
Simplification of the Common Fisheries Policy is an attractive notion , given the centralised , cumbersome and often secretive processes under which management decisions are made . 
My view , and that of many Scots , is that the CFP should be concerned with the market in fisheries products , but that control and management of the resource and of catching opportunities should be returned to Scotland . 
Both amendments go outside the objective of the Action Plan . 
They are only justifiable in the looking glass world of the Common Fisheries Policy , a policy which has done so much damage to fishing communities , fish stocks and the wider environment within our own waters . 
Accordingly I have voted against this report . 
Mr President , this summer 's conflict has claimed the lives of over 1000 people , the vast majority of whom were innocent civilians . 
It has reduced much of Lebanon to rubble . 
If the situation teaches us nothing else , it must teach us to look forward , rather than back . 
We should waste no time in deploying the 7000 troops that the Union has pledged to UNIFIL to stabilise the situation in southern Lebanon , to cut off the flow of arms and to support the humanitarian effort . 
We must , however , clarify UNIFIL 's mandate to turn the UN resolutions into reality on the ground . 
And of course we must go further . 
We must demand the lifting of the blockade of Gaza and we must help to establish an effective Palestinian Government . 
In the medium term , while condemning terrorist acts we must bring Hizbollah and Hamas in from the cold and engage them in a dialogue for the establishment of a democratic framework . 
We must set up an independent inquiry into the civilian deaths caused by all sides in the recent conflict and , as Kofi Annan has pointed out , it will not be through the barrel of a gun , but thanks to dialogue and compromise that Hizbollah will put down their weapons and negotiate a long-term solution . 
We have long-term tasks too . 
If we are to raise a new generation that is not steeped in fear and intolerance , we must build institutions that will ensure peace in the long term . 
When he was President of the European Commission , Romano Prodi talked about setting up a Euro-Arab development bank , jointly financed and managed by both sides . 
We must look , too , at a security organisation along the lines of Mr Fogh Rasmussen 's proposed conference on security and cooperation in the Mediterranean , which Mr Schulz has quoted . 
Let us learn from Einstein when he told us that peace can not be kept by force , only achieved through understanding . 
Mr Tuomioja , you spoke about the European Union 's remarkable achievement and its major success . 
I commend the work you have done , but let us not exaggerate . 
It is a crisis that has driven the European Union to the position it is in , though something Michel Barnier has called the . 
The Union does not have the European constitution that it needs and which would have equipped it far better to deal with this situation . 
We are deploying European forces but this is not an EU force , even if -- thank heavens -- it is a coalition of the coherent . 
In terms of democratic decision-making we are running on a wing and a prayer . 
After your meeting in Lappeenranta on 25 August , Mr Solana said that this was the most important decision taken by the EU for many years . 
If that is so , then why is Mr Solana not here , telling us about it and telling us about the conditions surrounding this conflict ? 
He has a mandate , but of what kind ? 
When we asked we were told that the rules of engagement for the forces were : ` a matter strictly between the United Nations and the troop contributors ' . 
We were told , therefore , that this was not a European matter . 
It is absurd that Mr Solana is not here to talk to us about the rules of engagement for this conflict ! 
If things go wrong and we have large numbers of young men coming back home in body bags , people will want to know who in Europe is responsible . 
Somebody will have to take the political responsibility . 
Please , President-in-Office of the Council , get Europe 's common foreign and security policy together so that we are not faced with that kind of situation . 
In conclusion , we should give two cheers for Europe : one for Louis Michel 's rapid action and one for Romano Prodi 's courage in coordinating our efforts to deal with this problem . 
We should thank the Commission , the Finnish Presidency and Cyprus -- a new Member State -- for the tremendous help it has given . 
We should also thank Turkey for having the courage to help us in committing troops . 
However , we still run the risk of insistence on national sovereignty resulting in global anarchy . 
I regret that the European Council did not call for an immediate ceasefire after the outbreak of hostilities by Israel on Lebanon . 
Israel 's action was disproportionate . 
Israel should now be asked to help rebuild Lebanon on the basis of ` the destroyer pays ' . 
There should be a committee of inquiry on war crimes and the EU should revisit its economic and military cooperation with Israel . 
We should also be aware and condemn the fact that the conflict in Lebanon was used as cover for even more intensive and brutal oppression of the Palestinian people . 
The EU must work for a peaceful and just settlement to the disputes in the Middle East , particularly by pressing for a secure and independent Palestinian State . 
I wonder if the Council would agree that this specific case highlights a more general problem that the United States expects Europe to cooperate with it on judicial matters , but when Europe asks the Untied States for cooperation , that country is much less willing to give it ? 
Will the Council have a debate among its Members to discuss how it might put more pressure on the United States to cooperate with the European Union on judicial matters ? 
I am very glad that you have made it clear that it is up to the legislation of the Member State concerned as to whether it can undertake research . 
This is purely related to the funding of it . 
I should be interested if the President-in-Office could tell us what opportunities she sees in the ability to undertake stem cell research and to fund it at a European level . 
I am delighted that the one Member State 's objection has been lifted to the adoption of the framework decision . 
Will the Presidency urge the COREPER Working Group to expedite their work on this matter so that we can get this adopted as soon as possible ? 
Would the Council further agree that the adoption of such a framework decision would send a positive signal to our ethnic minorities in the European Union , particularly the Muslims , who feel under a lot of pressure in our continent at the moment ? 
I hope the Minister will bear in mind that the current restrictions on travel and the security measures at British airports are causing enormous disruption to normal commercial and economic life . 
I hope the Presidency will bear in mind , when coming to any concerted position at a European level , that it must make sure that economic and commercial life is able to continue . 
Progress towards a lasting peace in the Middle East will only be made when the mutual coexistence of an Israeli and Palestinian State , both with secure and recognised borders , is respected and endorsed by the international community . 
In light of this , I call on the EU to do everything possible to secure that conclusion . 
Whilst the conflict persisted in Lebanon , international attention was ignoring the 250 air strikes , 1000 artillery shells , and more than 200 killings inflicted on the people of Gaza as well as , at the most recent count , around 300 Palestinian child prisoners being held captive in Israeli jails . 
I believe that there is no military solution to this crisis and that the EU should call on Israel to desist from offensive military action in the region and immediately release the Palestinian child prisoners arrested by the Israeli army . 
I do not see that this is proportionate to the issues and that the funds likely to be used in this venture would be better used elsewhere . 
It is true that countries do not come to the table as equals in international trade . 
This means we need to honour our Doha commitments to ` less-than-full reciprocity ' in NAMA , to special and differential treatment and Aid for Trade for the poorest countries . 
It means especially that we can not continue to allow agriculture , accountable for only 2 % of our economy , to remain the stumbling block of these talks . 
I hope that this period of stocktaking at the WTO will enable parties to reflect not only on how that organisation must change , but also on the merits of that organisation -- a unique body in international law . 
Bilateralism -- with its unequal terms -- is a poor substitute for developing countries who will be forced to accept less favourable terms on market access and intellectual property rights . 
I voted for a renewed commitment to this WTO round , as an ambitious trade round but also as the development round it was originally intended to be . 
The alternative is a morass of unequal bilateral deals which will in the main disadvantage the developing world , we are already seeing this trend worsening . 
Agreement will evidently take more time , though in the short term there are other weapons in our armoury . 
The `` Aid for Trade '' agenda provides a useful means of working towards effective development and I would like to see it progress , while of course hoping that the Commission will continue to press for substantive progress in the WTO itself . 
The counterfeiting of medicines is the most serious and most amoral form of counterfeiting given that it endangers the health of millions of consumers . 
This problem is particularly prevalent in developing countries where medicines without essential active ingredients are circulating ( in some countries as high as 50 % of the medicines available ) and are being used to treat fatal conditions such as HIV/AIDS , TB and malaria . 
There is no reason why counterfeiting of medicines and their distribution within or across borders should not constitute a criminal offence in international law . 
I and my colleagues would like to see greater coordination of national and transnational bodies involved in the fight against piracy . 
I also support the EU taking a leading role in strengthening the regulatory and quality-control capacity for medicinal products and medical equipment placed on the market in resource-poor countries . 
I would call on the authorities and pharmaceutical companies to continue to guarantee the origin and quality of medicines available , recognising the utmost importance of fighting this dangerous form of piracy . 
Can we find other means ? 
With regard to that I would refer to paragraph 8 of the motion for resolution , suggesting excluding Zimbabwe from the 2010 World Cup . 
We saw this week the fraternity and friendship that emanates from international football . 
My team -- Scotland -- was in Lithuania recently and I have no doubt a number of friendships were made . 
However , participation is a privilege , not a right . 
I would be grateful to hear the Commissioner 's view on it . 
Mr President , before I was elected to this Parliament I was the leader of a Scottish local authority which was , if I may say so , a very successful one in terms of both value for money and meeting local aspirations for public service provision in the County of Angus . 
It was then , and remains today , the predominant interest of local government to protect its right to local self-government . 
It is therefore vital that in any new EU initiative we put an end to uncertainty . 
Let us not be satisfied with woolly wording in relation to vital public service . 
Let us not interfere in any way with the principle of local self-government . 
Let us distinguish clearly between private enterprise , which is subject to EU competition law , and public service : services of a local nature provided for the public good , which have little or no cross-border effect and should be provided free of EU competition rules . 
The setting of standards in general interest services should also be subject to local decision . 
Some local authorities are sceptical of the need for new EU legislation . 
I say that if we are to have a framework directive , let us have one that gives cast-iron guarantees of the rights of local authorities to define , organise and finance public services in the way they see fit . 
I recognise that significant economic benefits to business will arise from removing barriers to commercial service provision , but let us not further alienate public opinion by interfering with or undermining the provision of essential local public services . 
. I congratulate our rapporteur on his initiative . 
Education is and must remain a Member State competence . 
Indeed , we in Scotland control our own education system and have for centuries . 
However , our rapporteur makes the very fair point that often our youngsters leave school ill-equipped to participate as citizens , and often know little about the EU or other governments which work for them . 
The steps set out in this report make interesting homework for teachers across the EU . 
. I voted against the suggestion that the European Institute of Technology should be sited in Strasbourg , because I think this is a silly idea . 
The EIT proposals are ongoing from the Commission , and worthy of serious consideration , they should not be used as an excuse for us to solve our own dilemma getting out of Strasbourg . 
The Parliament should have one site , in Brussels , and the EIT idea should progress further . 
The two are distinct issues and it is irresponsible to attempt to link them in this way . 
As it is the only parliament in the world which has no say over where it sits , the Council of Ministers must , once and for all , put an end to this situation . 
The people of Europe have spoken . 
Their voice must be recognised . 
The European Parliament must have one home and that should be in Brussels . 
On a separate issue , I would like to put on the record my opposition to the second pension scheme . 
As Amendment 5 was rejected , I can not back the report and will have to vote against it . 
Well , there are two : Bulgaria and Romania recognise that they will be stronger in the European Union and the European Union will be stronger with Romania and Bulgaria . 
Size matters . 
With the supranational challenges we face in today 's world , the more countries that share our values and practise good government and democracy within our Union , the more able we will be to promote those values beyond it . 
I salute , in particular , Meglena Kuneva and Anca Boagiu , who have conducted the detailed negotiations on behalf of their countries like a pair of swans , apparently gliding serenely across the surface of the water but with their feet paddling away ten to the dozen underneath . 
I express my thanks to the European Commission , and in particular to Commissioner Rehn , for a difficult task imaginatively tackled and accomplished appropriately under a Finnish Presidency . 
We all recognise that there is unfinished business . 
The European Union is a moving target with the constantly evolving . 
Bulgaria and Romania are developing themselves . 
We know that democracies are sometimes run by crisis management : often problems are often not solved until they have to be solved . 
We acknowledge that there is only a certain elasticity in the management of public affairs . 
Moreover , we recognise that there is a need , as in previous enlargements , for transition periods and safeguard clauses . 
I urge the governments and people of both countries to continue their reforms , but to those who doubt their readiness I ask , would they be better off and would we be better off with them outside ? 
Should we say ` no ' or ` not yet ' ? 
As the American commentator Mencken once said , that ` For every complex problem there is an answer which is clear , simple and wrong . ' 
Leaving them outside the Union would be the wrong answer . 
I am pleased , however , that the Commission draws attention in its report to the need for greater efforts in the fight against crime and the need for more serious efforts in improving the situation of the Roma people in both the countries joining us . 
The rule of law and social inclusion are fundaments of our Union . 
More action needs to be taken by the governments of both countries and the Commission needs to monitor that action on our behalf . 
There is work to be done in Romania and Bulgaria to make the European Union a reality . 
But there is work to be done in the European Union , too , to convince our citizens that the cost they are paying for the accession of Romania and Bulgaria is not a net negative . 
To explain to them , as the Špidla report showed us , that those countries which welcome new countries as partners gain economic benefits . 
To point out to them that unless we let low-cost labour come to where the investment is , then the investment will go to where the low-cost labour is . 
It is a win-win calculation in bringing new countries such as Romania and Bulgaria into the Union . 
We will all be winners . 
There are some who ask whether this will be the last enlargement . 
I believe that our Member States will be obliged to sort out Europe 's constitutional challenges before new countries are taken in . 
I hope that is what the Commission President meant when he said that this might be the last enlargement . 
We owe our citizens and the citizens of these two future Member States the duty of sorting our Europe 's constitution before we take in further countries . 
In conclusion , let us welcome Romania and Bulgaria today , not in a spirit of triumph but in a spirit of satisfaction with work well accomplished . 
Mr President , I should like to thank Mr Cavada for his oral question , the opportunity for this debate , and the excellent work that he and his colleagues do in their committee . 
I had the honour to chair that committee at the time of the Council meeting in 1999 in Tampere . 
I salute the efforts of Commissioner Frattini and of the Finnish Presidency in trying to coax and cajole the Member States forward . 
Other countries are now blocking the process of repair . 
Unless we are able to bring in the footbridge -- the ` clause ' -- we will never have a credible policy in justice and home affairs . 
We will continue with a policy like a push-bike when what we need is a Ducati . 
Member States sit there in their medieval fastnesses with the drawbridges firmly up . 
In the name of national sovereignty they are enhancing global anarchy . 
Our citizens demand better . 
In the early period of building the European Union , political leaders were ahead of public opinion . 
They saw leadership as painting a vision of the Europe they wanted and leading people towards it . 
That can be a dangerous strategy , but far less dangerous than being in the position -- as you pointed out , Commissioner -- of being behind public opinion . 
Our citizens are asking : why is there no immigration policy to prevent the human tragedy we see on our southern shores ? 
Why are we not sharing criminal intelligence in the fight against terrorism or the fight against drugs ? 
Why is there no access to justice for victims of cross-border crime or cross-border marital breakdown ? 
When ministers meet , as Abba Eban once said in a different context , they ` never miss an opportunity to miss an opportunity ' . 
We want to see more emphasis on European values . 
We may have no constitution , but we have a Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
Mr Rajamäki , you said that human rights are at the top of the Council 's concerns and fully taken into account . 
Are you sure ? 
What about the CIA secret prisons saga , where this House was right to set up a committee on rendition to see whether we need to use Article 7 ? 
What about the PNR issue , where the 2007 agreement to replace the sticking-plaster solution you have devised this month must be in tandem with the framework decision on the protection of personal data ? 
And what about minimum procedural guarantees for suspects in criminal proceedings : why is that issue still at the bottom of the in-tray ? 
I want Mr Frattini and the Presidency to take to the Council on 6 October the message that Europe demands better . 
Mr President , today we are asked to approve yet another fisheries agreement exporting our disastrous policies to a third country . 
These agreements do not serve development , conservation or the credibility of the EU and I shall continue to vote against them . 
Mr President , I congratulate our rapporteur Mrs Krehl on a well balanced report on this crucial issue . 
In Scotland we have long experience of using structural funds effectively and well , and it is vital that the funds continue to evolve to meet Europe 's needs . 
I welcome this report on the accession of Turkey . 
The report commends the opening of the active phase of negotiations and the completion of the first chapter of science and technology as well as the resumption of legislative change in Turkey through the ninth package of legislative reform . 
Despite welcoming all of these advancements , I regret the fact that Turkey has not fully addressed the Cyprus issue . 
The Cyprus issue needs to be settled conclusively before Turkish accession ; it is essential that Turkey recognises all Member States of the European Union . 
Mr President , I welcome this realistic report , though do think it could have been stronger . 
I in principle support Turkey 's eventual accession provided they have taken reform seriously and faced up to their past . 
I do not believe that they have , and it is up to us to keep the pressure up . 
Mr President , let me add my congratulations to Mr Karim on an excellent report . 
As his report clearly demonstrates , when we are discussing India , the first problem is to decide which India we are discussing . 
Is it the India with nearly four million households earning over EUR 150 000 a year and with more graduates than any other country ? 
Or is it the India with 390 million people living on less than a dollar a day , where two out of five of people are illiterate and where the so-called IT revolution only touches one in fifty Indians ? 
I hope , as a Parliament , we are interested in both . 
If India overcomes its infrastructure problems , most notably its persistent power cuts and poor transport networks , then I believe that within a generation it has the potential to be Europe 's largest trading partner , more important than China or the United States . 
I therefore welcome what Commissioner Borg said about the High Level Trade Group 's recommendations . 
I believe we should intensify our trade and investment relations with India . 
However , at this stage , I agree with Mrs Mann and Mr Papastamkos that we should stop short of a free-trade area , because we would not want India to be used as an example to denigrate the prospect of a successful DDA outcome . 
We must put our eggs in the DDA basket first and foremost , and anything else should be seen as a digression from that . 
Mr Papastamkos rightly points out that 77 % of Indian goods come into the EU market duty-free through the GSP . 
The GSP places an obligation on India to improve its core labour standards . 
India signed up to the Millennium Development Goals and the EU , with our cooperation , should help by facilitating universal education , Eurohealth programmes and policies to get young people from poor areas into work . 
I believe that trade and development go hand in hand , but only if we work at it . 
I welcome the report 's emphasis on both those aspects of our relations with India . 
The effect on fishing communities , on the families who depend upon the catching and processing sectors , has been very serious and very stressful . 
Regrettably , Scotland 's coastal communities continue to suffer while its own Government repeatedly declines to make use of available opportunities to make financial assistance available . 
Our rapporteur takes the view that greater decentralisation of the CFP would be an improvement , and I agree that would be a step in the right direction . 
However , ultimately , I regret to say that the CFP is destined to fail ; and the scrapping of the CFP , coupled with a change in government in Scotland , is the only hope for fishing communities in the long-term future in Scotland . 
Mr President , I am delighted that the UK Government was one of the key supporters of Council Regulation ( EC ) No 1185/2003 concerning the disgusting practice of removing shark fins on board vessels . 
The regulation is designed to prevent shark finning , where shark carcasses are thrown overboard after high-value shark fins have been removed . 
You could call this ` slit and chuck ' . 
Without their fins , the sharks suffocate to death . 
Only today American researchers using fish auction records from Hong Kong have calculated that the trade in shark fins kills 26 million to 73 million sharks a year . 
Against this background , I am appalled and disappointed that this report threatens an increase in shark finning . 
Paragraph 5 of the report requests an increase of the 5 % fin - to live-weight ratio to 6.5 % , particularly for blue sharks . 
Paragraph 3 of the report incorrectly implies that ICES and ICCAT support an increase in fin - to live-weight ratio for the blue shark . 
The same goes for ICCAT , where scientists have reviewed fin to carcass ratios but have not recommended an increase of the ratio . 
Amendment 1 is placed first on the voting list , and I recommend support for it . 
I fear that the European Parliament may not give its support to any of these amendments , a retrograde step , and I ask colleagues to say no to ` slit and chuck ' . 
Mr President , the UK , Germany and Belgium fought very hard to implement a ban on shark finning in 2003 . 
They received wide support in the Council . 
Spain and Portugal now appear to be the only Member States pushing for an amendment to the regulation in respect of the 5 % ratio of fins to live weight of shark catch . 
They say that the current regulation is unrealistic , particularly for the blue shark , which is the main target of their fishery and which they claim is in great abundance in EU waters . 
I think the strong international market for shark fins , mostly as we have just heard for the Asian shark fin soup market , coupled with the relatively low value of shark meat , has motivated Spain and Portugal to support this drastic amendment . 
It remains a fact that the 5 % ratio of fins to live weight contained in EU legislation is the weakest in the world , as Mr Davies told us . 
The higher the ratio , the more likely it is that the illegal practice of finning will recur . 
That is why I have tabled an amendment which proposes that the figure be lowered to 2 % of live weight . 
That would ensure the protection of sharks in EU waters , increase that protection and fall in line with international standards . 
The IUCN , the World Conservation Union , has confirmed that the blue shark is endangered and will be placed on its red list as a vulnerable species when that list is updated later this year . 
In such circumstances , it would be madness to permit more of these sharks to be killed . 
Indeed , we should be seeking to impose a strict regime of TACs and quotas on blue sharks to offer the species additional protection . 
The EU has a great story to tell on international development , often considerably more impressive than most Member States . 
However , we could do better , much better , and this report has a number of good ideas which I am happy to support . 
I welcome this detailed report on the possibilities and challenges which face the EU and India in seeking closer bilateral trade relations . 
I fully agree with the rapporteur 's call to stress the strategic importance of trade relations with India , given its impressive economic development and its status as a leader of the G20 at the World Trade Organisation . 
As the country prospers internationally , the gap between the rich and the poor within its borders is widening and I therefore support this report 's emphasis on tackling trade and development issues together . 
India has a responsibility to its citizens to enforce core labour standards and meet environmental standards . 
At the same time , the EU as a global leader and a principle trading partner of India must work with the Indian authorities to ensure that the Generalised System of Preferences can continue to support Indian industry and that a delicate balance can be found between the need to enforce international rules on intellectual property and making sure that traditional knowledge and access to medicines for poverty-related diseases can be maintained . 
Organic food is a growth market in Scotland but confidence in the standards applied in the sector is of paramount importance if we are to see the sector develop . 
This report goes in the right direction , but we as the EU need to go further and officially underline support for organic farming and ways to protect it and promote it . 
I have followed closely the negotiation of this resolution , and do support it , albeit I would like to see us do more . 
I voted in favour of this report , as it recognises the vital yet often overlooked role of women in supporting economies across the world . 
It finds that inequality continues to exist between women and men both within and outside the European Union in terms of their opportunities to pursue education and work . 
At the same time , the report draws attention to the important fact that so-called ` women 's work ' , including caring for the family and providing social care , has been traditionally unrecognised and unremunerated . 
The fact is that women already contribute significantly in economic terms in both the public and private spheres . 
Many international trade and development policies have in the past failed to recognise the extent to which women in developing countries engage in income-related activities and control the household budget . 
I therefore welcome and support calls for policies to encourage greater economic participation by women with the aim of further improving their status and boosting their income and assets . 
I also support the report 's recommendation that EU Member States should follow Norway 's example in providing for a 40 % quota in female representation on the boards of its joint-stock companies . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Madam President , Madam President-in-Office , Liberals and Democrats wish you well for Lahti . 
A Presidency in the second half of the year is never easy , and informal talks with 25 Heads of Government round a table are difficult to imagine . 
I bet you can not even fit them all into one sauna ! 
On your agenda there will be important matters as diverse as energy , innovation and migration , although , as you say , the real story will be entertaining the President of the Russian Federation . 
We believe that the Member States must stand foursquare behind the Union flag in condemning attacks on freedom and private property in a country where one more candle of independent thought has just been extinguished . 
Mr Putin has clearly studied Machiavelli 's dictum : ` Princes who have achieved great things have been those who have given their word lightly , who have known how to trick men with their cunning and who have overcome those abiding by honest principles . ' 
While President Putin concedes that his country is tarnished by the murder of Anna Politkovskaya , he fails to add that 40 other journalists have been murdered in his country in recent years . 
Liberals and Democrats pay tribute to Anna Politkovskaya . 
Among her criticisms of the state of freedom and democracy in Russia , she wrote , in a book called Putin 's Russia : Life in a failing democracy , ` Yes , stability has come to Russia . 
It is a monstrous stability under which nobody seeks justice in law courts , which flaunt their subservience and partisanship , nobody in his or her right mind seeks protection from the institutions entrusted with maintaining law and order because they are totally corrupt . 
Lynch law is the order of the day . 
The President himself , ' she continues , ` has set an example by wrecking our major oil company , YUKOS , after having jailed its chief executive , Mikhail Khodorkovsky . 
Putin considered Khodorkovsky to have slighted him personally , so he retaliated . ' 
Madam President-in-Office , Russia needs the European Union just as much as the European Union needs Russia . 
They need our market for oil and gas . 
We are their biggest customer . 
So let our Heads of State and Government talk to Mr Putin about oil and gas , but do not have them mince their words about an increasingly dictatorial regime . 
Let them also prepare for life without dependency on Russia through joined-up thinking on energy and the environment . 
In a week in which Al Gore has promoted his film on the ` inconvenient truth ' of climate change , our energy policy must in any case reflect an urgent need for a change of direction . 
Lahti is a follow-up to Hampton Court a year ago , where leaders approved plans to create a European energy market , raise competitiveness and educational levels and tackle the growing pressure of migration . 
In the past 12 months , the urgency for action in all those areas has increased . 
The Commission has rightly identified the needs , but Member States continue to deny the means . 
The Commission proposes a genuine internal market in energy , unbundling networks as we did with telecoms , creating an observatory to monitor stocks , developing a more sustainable energy mix , making energy savings . 
We welcome these proposals , but we need the Council to get on with them . 
Mr Barroso wants a European institute for technology . 
Get on with it , if you can raise the money ! 
Migration is presented , on the one hand , with data showing we need to encourage migration of labour and skills , and , on the other , with media headlines stoking populist fears of uninvited guest workers taking away jobs and benefits . 
We support the Finnish Presidency and its modest and pragmatic approach to EU business . 
However , Madam President-in-Office , we fear you are being eclipsed already by the forthcoming German Presidency . 
Issues are being postponed ; foreign leaders are courting Mrs Merkel . 
The German Foreign Ministry is taking the lead . 
Let us not raise excessively high expectations of what Germany can deliver , nor lower our expectations of what the Finnish Presidency can achieve . 
The Presidency needs to show that , in the words of the Monty Python song , ` Finland has it all ' ! 
I fully support the strategy that my friend Claude Moraes outlined in the House during the vote . 
Hopefully we have sent a political message to the Council without blocking the legislation . 
I fully support the approach to this report outlined by my friend Claude Moraes during the vote in the House . 
We will hopefully send an important political signal to Council without blocking the legislation . 
I welcome this legislation , which concerns the transformation of the European Union Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia into a fully fledged Agency for Fundamental Rights . 
The aim is to have an independent body which monitors in a continuous and systematic manner the conformity of national and European laws against established international Human Rights norms . 
The Fundamental Rights Agency will in turn be able to draft reports and opinions for the EU institutions and provide guidance and opinions . 
Member States and EU institutions will not be bound by its findings . 
I voted for this Report , which contains many sensible suggestions for improving the welfare of animals . 
However , we must not only set high welfare standards , we must also enforce them . 
The enforcement of our existing laws on animal welfare is far too patchy . 
The Commission needs to challenge Member States to properly implement the law with improved inspection and the application of sanctions . 
In general I welcome this report , which promotes the relaunching and strengthening of the bi-regional strategic partnership with Mercosur . 
It aims to reinforce regional integration as a priority dimension of support for development in Latin America , recognising the principles of ` less than full reciprocity ' and ` special and differential treatment ' depending on the levels of development and sectoral competitiveness of the two regions . 
It also advocates gradual and reciprocal liberalisation of trade . 
If applied in a timely and gradual manner , liberalisation has the key to unlock commercial potential and stimulate economic growth to the satisfaction of both parties . 
But it is not an end in itself and should not be seen as a panacea for all the problems that our partners face . 
Whilst praising the considerable progress made in post-apartheid South Africa in consolidating a functioning parliamentary democracy as well as the economic strides made as a middle-income developing country and as a leader of the Southern African Development Community , the report focuses on the need to address the considerable social challenges still facing the country . 
These challenges include particularly the high incidence of HIV/AIDS ( with 18.8 % of the population currently infected ) and rates of unemployment of more than 40 % . 
I fully support the report 's call for HIV/AIDS to be tackled as a priority for economic development , as well as its emphasis on the Strategic Partnership providing a single framework under which the existing EU cooperation instruments can improve performance in the interests of the South African population and economy . 
I am particularly concerned with the requirement for a 55 % allocation of funds for nature and biodiversity . 
Important as these areas are , such a requirement would limit Member States ' ability to allocate funds for projects addressing their own environmental priorities such as climate change . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , the European Union has been referred to as the greatest example of conflict resolution in history . 
We must be concerned with the remaining conflicts at home , just as we are concerned with conflicts beyond our Union . 
It is not for us in the European Parliament to intervene directly between the Spanish Government , political parties and the long-running conflict in the Basque country , but nor can we turn a blind eye . 
We should encourage what may be the best prospect for peace in a generation . 
I extend my solidarity and sympathy to all those families who have been bereaved of loved ones over the years as a result of the violence . 
But surely the most appropriate response that we , as democratic politicians , can bring to those countless victims is to ensure that there will be no more victims . 
It is for that reason that Liberals and Democrats lend their backing to the resolution before the House today . 
It is neither a time nor a subject for political point-scoring . 
It is my firm belief that all democratic forces who wish to see a peaceful end to violence and terror in the Basque country and elsewhere in Spain where atrocities have been committed should back the endeavours of whichever Spanish government is prepared to work to that end . 
Earlier this year , this House welcomed the announcement of an ETA ceasefire . 
It is right that we now build on that and engage a process that entrenches it , without prejudging or commenting on the outcome of any political dialogue or settlement . 
As with the Northern Ireland peace process , which is not identical but offers some important lessons for conflict resolution , it is occasionally necessary for politicians to take a risk for peace . 
We should not imagine that building the house of peace will be easy . 
There will be setbacks , such as the discovery of a cache of weapons in south-west France . 
But it is our duty to build the house of peace with the bricks of effort and the mortar of persistence . 
That is why my group appeals to all sides of this House today to set aside party politics and unite for the prospects of peace , as much as we stand together in revulsion at acts of terrorism . 
It is sad that they have turned their backs on the very wise words of their own former Prime Minister José María Aznar , who in 1998 said `` For peace , and its right , we must open our hearts to hope and forgiveness . 
In our fight for peace , we will do our best with the help and hope of everybody . '' 
What a pity the EPP could not capture that spirit in today 's debate . 
I support the creation of four strands Comenius for general education activities in schools , Erasmus for higher education , Leonardo da Vinci for vocational education and training and Grundvig for adult education . 
I believe this programme addresses important needs concerning the modernisation and adaptation of education and training systems in the light of the Lisbon goals . 
The ` Europe for Citizens ' programme ensures the continuity of the civic participation programme established for the period 2004 to 2006 . 
The programme provides the Union with an instrument to promote active European citizenship . 
It responds to the need to improve citizens ' participation in the construction of Europe and encourages cooperation between citizens and their organisations from different countries in order to meet , act together and develop their own ideas in a European environment which goes beyond the national vision . 
Studies conducted by the OECD , the UK authorities and the Scientific Committee on Health and Environment Risks have found evidence that PFOS are persistent , bioaccumulative and toxic . 
It seems right that the EU should act to get rid of another substance of high concern . 
`` Freedom of Expression '' is still met with death in too many places in our world . 
Russia is still a country where freedom of expression is a myth . 
That is why I voted in favour of this resolution calling for Europe-wide standards for early detection and treatment of the disease . 
Breast cancer patients often suffer discrimination in the workplace and I hope that , following Parliament 's overwhelming vote , the Commission will now draft a charter for the protection of breast cancer patients at the workplace . 
I believe if this report was fully implemented we could improve the quality of life for surviving breast cancer patients and significantly reduce the estimated 88 000 deaths a year in the EU from Breast Cancer perhaps by as much as 35 % thus saving 30 000 women a year . 
The earlier the diagnosis , the greater the chance of survival . 
Most women with breast cancer do not want ` tea and sympathy ' but concerted action to improve treatment and tackle the causes . 
One simple action which could be taken is to minimise the wait from tests to diagnosis . 
From talking to women with breast cancer , it is the waiting which is the most worrying . 
We must do all that we can to help and improve the treatment of women at that most concerning time . 
Member States must do more to share best practice . 
The work of Europa Donna is essential in helping all European women and I want to place on the record my support for this pan-European organisation . 
Smoking is the biggest cause of preventable illness and disease across the EU . 
It is disappointing that Amendments 376 , 489 and 529 were rejected ( 232 votes for , 333 votes against ) . 
Subsidies for tobacco-growing in the EU need to end . 
This is particularly true in relation to foreign and security policy and development policy . 
It is bound to increase the impression in the world that the EU is very poor when it comes to putting its money where its mouth is . 
That said , I welcome the emphasis in this budget on proper control and getting value for money . 
The recent incident involving a Dutch company dumping waste in the Ivory Coast demonstrates that many in Europe still see Africa as a dumping ground . 
I hope the Dutch authorities leave no stone unturned in bringing those responsible to justice . 
If we want to protect the environment we must consider criminal as well as civil action against the abusers . 
author . - Mr President , unusually for us , sanctions are currently in place against Uzbekistan . 
Sanctions should be used sparingly and only as a last resort , but we in this House should not be afraid to call for them and indeed to see them implemented , as they are the only real weapon for encouraging internal change within that country . 
It is important for the EU to speak with one voice and this motion for a resolution seeks to do just that . 
First , we need to agree on a reality check . 
In recital C we note the fact that : ` the Government of Uzbekistan has not addressed the conditions the Council set out when sanctions were applied ' . 
And yet , as we say in recital B , the General Affairs and External Relations Council is expected to consider on 13 November whether it will extend the sanctions adopted last year . 
We believe that the sanctions should be extended and widened , particularly in the light of Uzbekistan 's continued refusal to allow an independent inquiry into the events in Andijan . 
We would like to see provision in paragraph 2 for the sanctions to be extended , with a targeted visa ban on specific key individuals . 
That will underline our growing frustration at the lack of progress without any detriment to the Uzbek people themselves . 
While I have no doubt that the Commissioner shares our concerns , we hope that she will match our commitment . 
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group . - Mr President , according to Government figures , the average earnings of farmers in my constituency in Scotland in 2005 were GBP 10 000 , or EUR 14 000 . 
Instead of offering practical help , Prime Minister Blair comes up with the startling proposal to slash 20 % off farmers ' single-farm payments , on top of the existing 5 % compulsory modulation that already exists and , as we have heard from Mr Goepel , a further 8 % that will be deducted to pay for Bulgaria and Romania . 
In other words , British farmers - as Britain appears to be the only Member State really pushing for this voluntary modulation - will lose roughly 33 % of their subsidy , which for many of them is a vital lifeline . 
But worse , this naked discrimination against UK farmers will place them at a huge competitive disadvantage to all other farmers in every other Member State in Europe . 
I say to the Commissioner : it may be that in the eyes of the WTO this does not amount to trade distortion , but in the pockets of farmers it certainly amounts to a catastrophe . 
I must also protest at the threats being issued by the UK Government , which tells us that if we vote against voluntary modulation it will compromise the future of the popular agri-environment schemes in which many UK farmers have participated . 
This is tantamount to blackmail and coming from a government that has imposed more than 80 stealth taxes , from a Chancellor - Gordon Brown - who has made taxation in the UK higher than Germany or France and now wants us to believe that he needs to slash 25 % off our farmers ' single-farm payments in order to be able to afford agri-environment schemes , it is an absolute joke . 
I can tell Mr Brown that if he watches the way this House votes on this proposal , he will see what we think of his sense of humour . 
rapporteur . - Mr President , what I was trying to tell you before was that Mr Allister 's speech was coming through in a foreign language on the English channel , so the English was being translated into something else , I do not know what . 
I am sorry Mr Allister , but we could not make out what you were saying ! 
A home is usually the largest purchase made in a lifetime , and the related mortgage is the most important financial obligation most people ever have . 
It is no surprise , therefore , that the Commission has focused on this area as it shifts its attention to retail financial services . 
The mortgage market is fragmented along national lines and opening up this market should lead to consumers being offered better value and a greater choice of mortgage products . 
There could be more opportunities for those people who currently find it difficult to get a mortgage , such as first-time buyers or people with fixed-term contracts . 
It should make it easier for people moving to another EU country for work or retirement or wanting to buy a second property abroad . 
For lenders , a more integrated market would offer greater economies of scale , reduce costs and lower rates for the borrower . 
On the other hand , local culture and traditions have shaped the products available and consumers will not want any diminution of existing consumer protection standards . 
Full harmonisation would be expensive for the industry and could limit the range of products it offers . 
The industry is highly competitive within most of our Member States , so we must not take heavy-handed action that might damage this booming sector . 
We want to see a European mortgage credit market with a broad range of products at competitive prices and any changes must benefit mortgage borrowers above all . 
We are therefore against a grand harmonising piece of legislation . 
It would be bad for consumers and bad for business . 
Instead , the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs agrees that we should focus on targeted measures aimed at removing specific barriers to cross-border mortgages . 
Any measures should only be taken after impact assessments have shown that the benefits outweigh the costs . 
Non-legislative means are to be preferred wherever possible . 
Our first priority should be to bring about a better European funding market . 
There are a number of obstacles preventing this . 
I would therefore like to see a database covering the various mortgage markets and mortgage securities , so that investors can better evaluate and price mortgage pools . 
We suggest a range of standardised packages of European mortgages for trading on the capital markets . 
Mortgage brokers could play an important role in helping borrowers access mortgage credit from domestic and non-domestic lenders . 
I am pleased that the Commission has undertaken to assess any problems related to those credit intermediaries . 
On the issue of the annual percentage rate of charge , we need an EU standard . 
The majority in the committee wanted an EU standard comprising all the charges levied by the lender , but with information as far as possible regarding any other costs . 
The report considers that restrictions on early repayment charges and interest rates are likely to restrict the development of new products , especially those for higher risk borrowers , as well as the development of the funding market . 
Among other issues we raised are removing obstacles to the transfer of loans across borders and assessing the potential of the Euro-mortgage . 
The law applicable to mortgage credit contracts should be addressed , with the revision of the 1980 Rome Convention . 
In the area of forced sales , we support the idea of a scoreboard , comparing the length and costs of judicial processes in the various Member States . 
Various professional bodies should agree on common property valuation standards . 
On land registers , the report favours improving access to standardised information , as well as supporting further work on the European Land Information Service . 
Tax barriers remain a problem and need to be looked at , even if their resolution is dependent upon the Member States under subsidiarity . 
The European Central Bank and the Commission have the important job of monitoring the potential risks of the massive and increasing levels of mortgage debt and their potential impact on capital markets . 
I much appreciate the support and input received from my colleagues on all sides of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs . 
The Commission seems to be set on much the same line as we propose . 
We look forward to the White Paper next year and we hope we will be able to continue the excellent cooperation we have enjoyed so far on this important subject . 
The conclusion of Good Environmental Status should be welcomed . 
However , in supporting Amendment 91 we clarify that oil and gas exploitation in the marine environment can continue , subject to international rules . 
The contribution of the oil and gas industry to the Scottish economy is important to recognise . 
It is sad to see that the Tories hold the health and safety of future generations so lightly . 
Once again they say one thing at home and another thing abroad . 
It is disappointing that the Commission 's proposal to introduce voluntary modulation of the CAP has been rejected . 
The introduction of voluntary modulation of the CAP would have provided for a sustainable approach to rural development . 
I hope that all those Members who have a direct interest in farming declared their interest and did not vote on this measure . 
However , encouraging multilingualism should not spill over into the excessive ( and unnecessary ) provision of interpretation and translation into regional languages . 
We need to recognise the uniqueness of the European Parliament in having simultaneous interpretation in 21 different languages , soon to be 23 . 
However , if we are going to achieve the aim of all EU citizens having competence in their mother tongue plus two other languages , we need support at Member State level . 
In Scotland , fewer people are choosing to study foreign languages at school and university . 
We must reverse that trend . 
I am pleased that all 10-year olds in Scottish schools are learning a foreign language . 
Their efforts should be encouraged and supported . 
The Scottish Executive support for Gaelic medium education should also be commended . 
In far too many countries that get GS preferences there are repeated violations of workers ' rights . 
The Commission must through regular and transparent evaluation ensure the implementation of the relevant ILO conventions . 
Parliament has played a significant role in allowing freer movement of services across EU borders without undermining social services , trade union rights or environmental laws . 
Parliament will have to monitor the implementation of the Directive closely to ensure that the commitments made in the Chamber by the Commissioner are adhered to . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , as Commissioner Wallström 's research - presented to one of our committees last week - has revealed , there is at least as much a communication crisis in the European Union as a constitutional crisis . 
We risk slowly but inexorably losing the confidence and trust of our citizens by our collective failure to respond to their concerns and our inability to frame a coherent and acceptable response . 
Those concerns are many and varied , but to my mind they hinge around responses to the challenges of the world in which we live . 
We witness rapid world population growth , even though it is declining here , and failure to share equitably the fruits of our endeavours or the benefits of modernity . 
As a result , many vote with their feet . 
We are creating a global economy without forging a comparable global social contract . 
We face a major challenge , as the Prime Minister mentioned , from internationally organised crime , with some criminal gangs now more powerful than some national governments . 
Yet the Union seems more geared to solving yesterday 's problems than today 's or tomorrow 's . 
The tools to solve these problems are at our disposal in a common foreign and security policy and a justice and home affairs policy , but they lie unemployed . 
The irony is that the Constitution as it emerged from the Convention probably met most critics ' concerns . 
Unfortunately , Europe 's political class failed to explain this , for which we all share responsibility . 
It would be too easy to conclude that the victory for the anti-European parties is confirmation that we got it wrong , but we need the Prime Ministers of those two countries to come here to explain to us how they see the way forward . 
In Poland there is denial , and from across the English Channel an eerie silence reflecting relief and embarrassment in near equal measure . 
I hope the Germans can relaunch the debate . 
I applaud Angela Merkel 's determination to do this , but I suspect she will find it extremely difficult within the period of the German Presidency . 
This is where Ireland can play such an important part , Prime Minister , not only because of the role you played in the Convention , or your experience of adverse referendum , but because of Ireland 's role in looking for what you called a return to the balance and the substance of the constitutional treaty , and in working together with Portugal and Slovenia . 
Go out and build a coalition of smaller countries that know how important it is to respond to the challenges of globalisation . 
Go out and build a coalition of the political forces which , in response to the challenges of globalisation , recognise that we need to keep the drawbridge down rather than pull it up . 
We have to show our citizens that the European Union can work on energy policy , on issues like mobile phone roaming charges , and in particular on justice and home affairs . 
We can do that with the existing Treaties by use of the passerelle clause . 
By any objective standards our Union is a great success . 
Therefore , think less about changes to the Constitution and more about building the collective courage to go out and persuade people why it is necessary . 
I voted for the Van Orden Report . 
I was pleased Parliament resisted attempts to water down the Bulgarian obligation to close units 3 and 4 of the Kozloduy Nuclear Power Station . 
This is clearly part of the Accession Treaty commitment . 
I voted in favour of this report on the accession of Romania . 
I believe the Romanian authorities have to do more to bring order to the system of international adoptions of Romanian children , but this is not an issue that should delay membership . 
I am pleased that the Industry Committee has managed to reach a consensus with the Council and Commission to allow the framework programme to be adopted before the end of the year . 
I hope the reality of the 7th programme will be better than the 6th . 
My contacts with users and potential users of EU research funds suggest that many , probably a majority , find the administrative burdens attached to utilising the money off-putting , cumbersome and often disproportionate to the benefits of obtaining funding . 
The market in fireworks is characterised by problems relating to the quality of imported products , their safe handling , safe storage and their condition of manufacture . 
I voted for this report and welcome the moves towards improving the safety of fireworks and their use . 
Far too many people ( particularly young people ) suffer burns and scars because of faulty fireworks or mishandling . 
In 2005 , 40 million people were living with HIV , approximately 95 % of them in developing countries , placing an impossible burden on the health system and economy in general . 
HIV/AIDS is perhaps the greatest threat to attaining the Millennium Development Goals . 
I believe the number-one objective for the scientific community and pharmaceutical industry today is finding a vaccine for AIDS . 
Such a discovery would allow us to imagine a world without AIDS . 
I voted for this excellent report . 
Disabled people have the right to be in a position where they can make the same individual choices and have the same control in their everyday life as non-disabled people . 
This clearly emphasises the need for an environment that enables disabled people to be as independent as possible . 
The recommendations in this report , if implemented , would take us a long way down that worthwhile road . 
rapporteur . - Mr President , before turning to my own report , let me congratulate Mr Mitchell on his . 
As the House will know , these two instruments started life as a single instrument and the Committee on Development was correct to argue that they needed to be separated because we were mixing apples and pears . 
The development instrument essentially aims to promote the interests of developing countries . 
The economic instrument , the one I am responsible for , is about promoting - not exclusively , but mainly - the interests of the European Union . 
It was therefore wrong that these two objectives should have been contained in a single instrument . 
The Committee on Development was correct to argue for a separate instrument and it was also correct to argue that it should be pushing hard for the European Parliament 's involvement to at least be the same as it is under the plethora of existing instruments . 
So , I congratulate Mr Mitchell on his report . 
It expands on the existing programmes , firstly in terms of geographical areas : the existing programmes cover just six countries , this new instrument will cover 17 countries . 
It is expanded in terms of objectives and , as one would hope with both the objectives and the geographical area being expanded , it is also expanded in terms of its budget . 
So , while it is the smallest of the external instruments , it is still a significant instrument . 
It focuses on furthering EU interests in industrialised countries and it builds on the highly successful executive training programme for Japan and Korea and the Gateway to Japan programme . 
The new programme will have five key objectives : to build on public diplomacy and outreach ; the promotion of economic partnership and business ; people-to-people links , particularly through education ; encouraging dialogues ; and finally the evaluation of small-scale cooperation projects to assist small and medium-sized enterprises to get access to third country markets . 
These are all very worthwhile objectives . 
In terms of the Committee on International Trade 's approach , we have concentrated on three things . 
First , given that the scope of the programmes has expanded from 6 to 17 countries , we have insisted that there is room for differentiation within the programme - a one-size-fits-all approach would simply not work in a programme like this . 
I am glad to say that the Commission has gone along with the idea that the programme should be country-specific , rather than a general programme for 17 countries . 
We have also tabled amendments to ensure that this programme is complementary to the other instruments that we will be adopting either today or at a later stage . 
Again , given that the programme has expanded , we have insisted that there should be human rights and rule of law clauses in these instruments . 
Again both the Council and the Commission have indicated a willingness to accept those amendments . 
I am also pleased to say that , despite this being only a consultation and not a codecision matter , unlike Mr Mitchell 's report , the Council has agreed to attach the two interinstitutional agreements on budgetary discipline and democratic scrutiny . 
It has also agreed that Parliament should be more involved in this programme than originally envisaged and has accepted that , if the scope of the programme is altered , either geographically or in terms of its objectives , Parliament will be fully consulted . 
The Commission has also agreed to bring forward multiannual planning for consultation with Parliament on this . 
So the level of parliamentary involvement has been significantly increased . 
Finally , let me conclude by saying that there is a chance that , if we adopt all the amendments today , this instrument will be adopted by the Council in exactly the form that it leaves Parliament . 
That is quite an achievement , given that it is only a consultation exercise . 
I would like to thank the Commission for its excellent cooperation , and particularly the Finnish Presidency , which , on a relatively minor instrument compared to the other instruments , has been fully engaged in Parliament 's work , has kept us fully abreast of its position and has made compromises . 
We have made compromises with the Presidency . 
I think in the end we have got a very workable instrument and I would like to thank all the institutions for their cooperation . 
However , while I have no problem with the individual herself or with the appointment of a Bulgarian Commissioner , I have serious doubts about there being enough jobs for 27 commissioners . 
I look forward to a Treaty change that significantly reduces the number of Commissioners . 
I am pleased to support Mrs Kuneva 's appointment today . 
However , I very much regret that the Nice Treaty makes it necessary for us to have one Commissioner per Member State . 
We have paid close attention to the confirmation process of our two new Commissioners , and are satisfied that both are welcome additions to the College . 
I am pleased to support Mr Orban 's appointment today . 
The Committee on Budgetary Control could find no evidence to support these allegations in their hearing . 
Mr Ispir has also strongly denied any wrongdoing . 
On the evidence available the allegations against him appear to be politically motivated . 
However , if any evidence of wrongdoing emerges I would expect Mr Ispir to resign from the Court . 
The main objective of this Decision is to determine what action needs to be taken for the achievement of a simple and paperless environment for customs and trade . 
This is highly laudable but I hope it does not prove to be a pious goal . 
It also extremely awkward to treat for pollution , even when the source of pollutants has been removed . 
I broadly support the intentions of the new directive , which would help preserve Scotland 's reputation of having a clean , unspoiled environment . 
There must be a balance , however , so that any new directive that is passed is not unnecessarily obstructive to farmers and agricultural business . 
For example , in 2003 , Scottish farmers faced groundwater charges when those in England did not . 
As long as this proposal does not produce extra bureaucracy or impractical demands for those who work around groundwater , then I think this directive is a worthy one . 
I believe the report is now much stronger than the Commission 's original proposal . 
We will now have more stringent rules to prevent or restrict inputs of hazardous substances into groundwater with a possibility to have even more stringent national measures . 
As regards nitrates , the provisions are now consistent with the Water Framework Directive . 
The Instrument is in two main parts - geographic and thematic . 
Geographic spending covers the money that will be negotiated between the Commission and partner countries through Country Strategy Papers ( CSPs ) - almost EUR 11 billion . 
I welcome the fact that Parliament insisted in negotiations that social services , and particularly health and education , be prioritised by the Commission when drawing up CSPs . 
Parliament also got a commitment from the Commission that 20 % of spending on geographic programmes would be on basic health and basic and secondary education - an important and longstanding priority of the Socialist Group . 
As I said in the debate , this might in financial terms be the least significant of the new external instruments , but it will still involve a budget of around EUR 22 million a year and cover our external actions with 17 important countries . 
I believe the amendments that Parliament has approved will make the instrument more appropriate and effective in promoting the interests and values of the EU in these 17 heterogeneous countries . 
I would like to thank colleagues of all Groups for their support in finding such a wide consensus . 
As things stand the new legislation is full of loopholes and exemptions and my concern is that this will allow the use of toxic chemicals in manufacturing to continue , even when safer alternatives exist . 
Mr President , after so much work over such a long period this package does not merit the backslapping and self congratulation we have seen today . 
The alternative package put forward by my group would have worked , and implemented a new regime which would have protected consumers and balanced the needs of business and the economy which must of course be included in our plans . 
Today 's package will not do what it says on the tin , and it is a shame that MEPs from the Labour and Conservative groups did not join us to bring in a better package . 
The Regulation , Evaluation , and Authorisation of Chemicals ( REACH ) is crucial in the protection of public health . 
This legislation is particularly important in relation to babies ' health through breast-feeding . 
Breast milk , the best source of essential nutrients for a baby , is currently being affected by dangerous chemicals found in the environment , passing through the mother 's body . 
Through REACH , such harmful chemicals would be substituted with safer alternatives where possible . 
Manufacturers would have a duty of care to protect human health and the environment . 
In addition to this , REACH promotes both increased transparency in the case of , and alternatives to , animal testing . 
The compromise reached today is the best we could hope for . 
I voted for the compromise amendments on this report and against all others . 
I did so to avoid the REACH Directive going into conciliation where I felt it was far from certain to emerge as a piece of legislation . 
Many of the amendments had much to commend them but they would have threatened the directive as a whole - as so often in politics the best would have been the enemy of the good . 
I voted against in the final vote on TV broadcasting , because I believe that programmes will be overrun by advertisements as a result of this report . 
I regret that Parliament rejected attempts to ban junk food advertising during children 's programmes . 
Today 's vote will undoubtedly lead to a deterioration in the quality of programmes in the EU . 
I voted for this report and in favour of amendments that allow Member States to take action to protect minors , to restrict the timing of alcohol advertising and the advertisements for unhealthy food . 
I also supported an amendment that allows a Member State to take action against a broadcaster who sets up in another Member State intentionally to get round national legislation . 
The health of children in Europe must be one of our key concerns . 
Therefore the marketing of foods high in sugar , salt and fat to children undermines efforts in the fight against child obesity , a problem faced by one in five children in the European Union . 
Such marketing makes it increasingly difficult for parents to encourage healthy eating : limits on such marketing are therefore imperative in tackling this problem . 
Furthermore , European Ministers ( in November ) and the EP Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Food Safety ( last week ) approved the World Health Organization 's call for the introduction of strict legislation in this area . 
We as legislators must do all that we can to protect children 's health and place a ban on the advertising of these types of unhealthy products to children . 
Also , I fully back the amendment which would have restricted the advertising of alcohol to after 9 p.m. in the evening . 
It is with grave disappointment that I note that the vote today did not go far enough in protecting children 's health . 
I supported this compromise package which will ensure the motor industry is forced to produce greener and cleaner cars which will help to reduce pollution . 
The failure to launch negotiations for a new framework agreement between the EU and Russia is deeply concerning . 
There are many issues , including the recent murder of a former Russian spy , which require answers . 
I hope that the next Presidency of the EU will also give priority to relations with Russia . 
Although there is much to support in this report , it focuses not on what is needed for enlargement but what the EU is missing due to the non-ratification of the Constitution Treaty . 
Although I am not against the Constitutional Treaty , I do not believe that it should be a prerequisite for future enlargements . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , observers will be delighted to hear that the Presidency-in-Office is cutting down the length of the Council conclusions . 
I understand that the current draft is about 20 pages , at least in French , compared with the normal 60 . 
They may not be so pleased to hear from Mr Poettering that the European People 's Party is meeting tomorrow to prepare the summit . 
They are so divided over issues like Turkey that , when they prepare the summit , things never get better ! 
In fact , I understand that the Council Secretariat is preparing a letter saying , ` please , if things do n't get better soon , we may have to ask you to stop helping us ! ' 
I would like to address three issues that are on the agenda for the summit : enlargement , energy and migration . 
The Council will discuss enlargement and , no doubt , integration capacity . 
Perhaps they will find an agreement on where Europe ends , but I suspect that Jean Monnet might have been right when , addressing the predecessor to this assembly , the Common Assembly of the European Coal and Steel Community in 1955 , he spoke of a ` broader united Europe whose bounds are set only by those who have not yet joined ' . 
As the Chinese would put it rather more prosaically , ` the people who decide when the bus is full are those on the outside ' . 
It is important to discuss Turkey and I praise the Commission , and particularly the work of Commissioner Rehn , in taking action and making a firm proposal before there was time for an anarchy of reaction from national capitals ; a firm proposal that was supported by the foreign ministers and , I hope , will be taken up by the Council . 
It is not going to do any good to think we can rewrite the Nice Treaty for Croatia . 
Let us get the Constitution sorted first . 
Held hostage to producers , whether they be in Russia or in North Africa or in Central Asia - or perhaps even in Latin America - in the case of biofuels . 
What we urgently need to do in Europe is to cut consumption by motor vehicles and electrical equipment ; cut consumption of heating through better design of buildings ; cut the consumption of electronic equipment ; and increase production of safe , sustainable energy sources - biomass , as proposed by the Commission , and renewables , perhaps through research by moving to a hydrogen economy or looking into nuclear fusion . 
We need to liberalise markets , because one of the reasons we do not have a proper energy policy in Europe is that we do not have a proper liberalisation of the market . 
I am pleased that even the Social Democrats , meeting in Oporto last week , have finally recognised that competition is going to be important for future development . 
On migration , the Commission and the Council are concentrating too much on the security aspects , not enough on the economic or humanitarian aspects . 
Finally , if the Council does come to discuss the site for Galileo - I understand that Prague , Valetta and Ljubljana all want it - why do they not follow the example of this wonderful institution and have a three-site operation ? 
At least those looking at the site for Galileo would be able to say eppur si muove ! 
In 22 years as a Member , this is the shortest budget vote I can recall . 
I regret that Parliament has agreed a number of reductions in order to stay within budgetary limits . 
Too often we see refugees being ignored and at the end of Member State priorities , and it is only right that where Member States fall down the Union should step in to ensure our standards are maintained . 
This report takes us closer to a coherent system and I am pleased to support it . 
We saw in Scotland the disaster that the wreck of the Braer inflicted upon the Shetland Islands and we must do all we can to ensure the safety of our European marine environment and our coastlines . 
The EU must impose high standards on these international operators , and this report takes us some of the way there . 
The Commission 's feasibility study concluded that there is a clear role for such an Institute . 
If these proposals find their way into law they should end the practice of driving licence tourism , where an individual banned in one Member State obtains a licence in another Member State . 
I know many motorcyclists are concerned about the minimum age of 24 years for access to more powerful machines . 
I hope they will find the compromise of allowing them access at an earlier age if they have sufficient experience acceptable , as that keeps safety at the top of our concerns . 
Mr President , I support this report with a few reservations , namely that I am not convinced that the certification of drivers should be dealt with on an EU level , provided there is suitable recognition of standards from other EU members . 
I am sceptical of concerns that have been expressed by the anti-European right that this package would introduce ID cards by the back door , but I do have some sympathy with the idea that this package is answering a need not in fact felt on the ground . 
I welcome this latest report which amends the rules of procedure to bring them in line with the new agreement on comitology . 
While this can be seen as a technical matter it is in fact highly political because the way we adapt our rules directly impacts on our ability to influence EU legislation . 
Richard has always been adept at maximising Parliament 's influence . 
As for the increase in Quaestors , this may be marginally more justified but I think it dangerous to have an even number of Quaestors . 
Even though this is a technical report I wish to stress my backing for the content , which ensures that medicines and other products for children are tailored to their needs and not simply variations ( i.e. lower doses ) of adult medicines . 
The fact that it is easier in some countries for creditors to pursue claims creates a distortion in the single market , so I welcome this attempt to create a level playing field . 
The specific programme ` Prevention and fight against crime 2007-2013 ' is a welcome attempt to contribute to a high level of security for citizens by preventing and combating crime , organised or otherwise , in particular terrorism , trafficking in persons and offences against children , illicit drug trafficking and illicit arms trafficking , corruption and fraud . 
Clearly all these activities have a cross-border aspect to them and therefore EU coordination can bring real added value to domestic law enforcement efforts . 
It aims at establishing an Instrument for Nuclear Safety and Security Assistance . 
The Chernobyl accident in 1986 highlighted the global importance of nuclear safety . 
In order to create the conditions of safety necessary to eliminate hazards to life and health the EU should be able to support nuclear safety in third countries . 
This report strikes the right balance by allowing the EU to promote the use of safer technologies and methods while not relieving third countries of their duty to ensure that nuclear plants on their territory operate safely and environmentally responsibly . 
My one disappointment is that the Parliament was not stronger on the need to ` unbundle ' energy ownership to avoid conflicts of interest and to create a more level playing field for energy competition . 
The Union 's energy markets are increasingly interlinked and interdependent , and it is right that an EU framework be created to ensure that our consumers benefit from our common market . 
From a Scottish perspective , we have a particular stake in the energy debate given our massive energy resources and even greater energy potential . 
That potential is currently being held back by the shortsightedness of the UK Government , and this report will help us , from the EU side , to hold them to account . 
Biomass and biofuels are of massive global potential , yet the growth of this sector must at all times be managed sensitively . 
I am sure I am not alone in receiving correspondence from many constituents worried that an unforeseen consequence of this policy could be the decimation of tropical rainforest to make way for biofuel monocultivation . 
I believe this report , as amended , takes due account of these concerns and am happy to support it today . 
author . - Mr President , those of us active in these human rights debates will recognise the subject of this one with depressing familiarity . 
The situation in Burma is getting worse not better , as colleagues have said , and I echo everything that has been said thus far . 
In our view this motion could have been better . 
However , there is one provision I would highlight and that is the paragraph recognising that the sanctions against the regime in force are not hitting the target and on occasion not being observed at all . 
The Council must ensure that all our Member States are observing the sanctions we have agreed and , if not , name and shame those falling down . 
We must put pressure on our international partners to put pressure on the Burmese Government itself . 
Paragraph 9 states that we want to see the sanctions widened , but we must always target them against the specific individuals in the regime and avoid doing harm to the people of Burma , because the suffering of the people must be our main concern , not our distaste for the democratic standards of the regime itself . 
That is where this motion really could be better . 
We wanted to see an explicit recognition of the 8 December briefing by the International Crisis Group and I shall quote the opening line : ` With growing signs of a humanitarian crisis in-the-making in Myanmar , the international community needs to get beyond debates about the country 's highly repressive political system . ' 
Caught in the middle of the grand geopolitics along with the people of Burma are the NGOs active on the ground trying to ameliorate the situation for the citizens of that unhappy country . 
We must in all our efforts remember that we must not undermine their independence , their efforts or ability to help the people . 
The recent closure of five Red Cross centres , an organisation that prides itself on its impartiality and integrity , is a desperate act by the Burmese Government , but one that was carried out because of a suspicion that the NGOs are too close to western policy . 
We must in all our actions on this ensure that we do not cut down their scope for manoeuvre . 
Therefore , in welcoming and supporting this resolution , my Group would also sound a note of caution that the people on the ground trying to help those most affected by the situation must not have their freedom of movement curtailed by our actions . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , I have to be honest : you were not my group 's candidate in 2004 . 
We had proposed Bronisław Geremek , one of the fathers and architects of today 's Europe of 27 Member States and a symbol of Europe 's reunification . 
But you have been fair and gentlemanly in your chairmanship of this House : you have treated its Members with courtesy and its business with patience and serenity . 
As a newcomer to this Parliament , it is not easy to be asked to lead it , and you rose to the challenge . 
Given the words of Mr Schulz , I wonder whether he fears for his own position should you return to his benches ! 
Mr President , particularly I appreciate your commitment to engaging with our citizens . 
However , it has not been limited to the European Union : you have been an active President of this House beyond our shores in your promotion of the Euromed Parliamentary Assembly , in your facilitation of the establishment of a Euro-Latin American Parliamentary Assembly and beyond . 
Nonetheless , I suspect that your greatest success during your presidency has been overseeing the successful integration of Bulgarian and Romanian Observers into this House . 
The presence today of new Members signals the completion of the fifth enlargement of our Union . 
The sight here today of two new Commissioners , Leonard Orban and Meglena Kuneva - at work since 1 January - warms our hearts , and the presence in the Council of Ministers of two new countries strengthens our Union as it prepares for an important birthday . 
Mr President , your predecessor , Pat Cox , put much effort into modernising our House . 
While recognising the reforms you have promoted , my group would have liked to have seen more reforms in the working of this House . 
Why should the European Parliament not meet formally every week to receive a report from the Commission ? 
Why should every Member not have a screen on their desks to bring us into the 21st century ? 
Why should our democracy be governed by rules laid down by a 19th century Belgian mathematician called D'Hondt ? 
These rules produce a result that is worked out on a calculator rather than a ballot paper , influenced more by the size and influence of nations than the European commitment and competence of the candidates . 
Therefore , I trust , Mr President , that your successors will engage with all Members of this House in a debate about the organisation of Parliament 's affairs in order to preserve and develop the values which you have upheld so courageously in your term as President . 
In closing , let me congratulate Mr Daul on his maiden speech as leader of his group . 
We will no doubt hear far more from him in the years to come . 
The treatment of the Dalits in India presents some serious human rights concerns . 
There should be a universal right to decent work and non-discrimination and the caste system as it currently exists in India guarantees neither of these right to Dalits . 
As the EU and the European Parliament 's very foundations are based on shared values , of which non-discrimination is a key element , then it is our duty to voice concern where we see these values being violated and these rights denied to others in third countries . 
I support this report amending the Fisheries Partnership Agreement . 
I particularly support the call for greater parliamentary involvement prior to any extension of the agreement . 
I am also glad that the development needs of coastal populations are addressed . 
Fundamental human rights are a core part of the European Union 's role and identity . 
As an institution of the EU , the European Parliament has a duty to support efforts to spread these values outside of the borders of the Union . 
Supporting the moratorium on the death penalty sends out the message that certain human rights should be upheld universally . 
I particularly support the reference in the resolution to the disgraceful manner in which the execution of Saddam Hussein was carried out . 
I strongly support this report as well as the Commission Green Paper entitled ` Promoting healthy diets and physical activity : a European dimension for the prevention of overweight , obesity and chronic diseases ' , which the report addresses . 
Public health issues are of increasing concern in Europe , and this report provides a welcome contribution . 
The report 's emphasis on the key role played by schools is to be welcomed , as is the call for action to be taken to address the alarming decline in the nutritional value of fruit and vegetables . 
I support the report by Mrs Ries on promoting healthy diets and physical activity . 
I agree the fight against childhood obesity should be a political priority of the European Union and its Member States . 
We should take urgent steps to encourage children to enjoy a healthy lifestyle and to urge Member States to increase the amount of physical education available in schools . 
I am glad to see the report recognises the importance and potential of food signposting systems in place in several Member States . 
I welcome calls to the Commission to research and develop a scientifically based EU-wide ` front-of-pack nutrition labelling scheme ' . 
I feel this is a straightforward but very effective way of encouraging people to choose healthier options . 
We must act urgently in informing people that their health and that of future generations is in their own hands . 
I have voted in favour of the proposals on limitation periods in cross-border disputes involving injuries and fatal accidents . 
I believe it is essential that Europe 's citizens can enjoy the freedom to travel in the European Union , and be safe in the knowledge that should problems arise they will not face unnecessary constraints in getting proper legal redress across borders . 
It is important that any new legislation in this area is based on sound evidence , not least to ensure that any future law brings forward specific and focused measures to tackle the problems . 
I have therefore voted in favour of the Wallis report , which demands that the Commission bring forward the evidence to enable this law to go ahead . 
I voted in favour of this report as it seeks to address the inequalities for women which still persist , mainly in gaining access to and obtaining higher academic qualifications , including at postgraduate level and in scientific research , and in the area of lifelong learning . 
There is a need to reform the content of school textbooks and to ensure that the training of educational workers be directed towards fulfilling the requirements of a balanced gender policy . 
I think it is important that the Commission and the Member States implement a policy towards national , ethnic and cultural minorities , paying particular attention to a multicultural approach and allowing access to quality education in order to avoid double discrimination . 
I voted in favour of this report as it has the potential to eliminate stereotypes discriminating against women in the workplace . 
I voted in favour of this report and welcome the fact that it calls for the banning of nuclear tests and that the Pacific region should be made nuclear-free . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , your experience in this House since direct elections in 1979 has qualified you well and has given you a rare sense of perspective for the post you occupy . 
I congratulate you on your speech this morning . 
You have seen the European Union grow from 9 countries in the 1970s to 12 in the 1980s , 15 in the 1990s , 25 and then 27 in this decade , with a queue of countries waiting to join . 
You have seen the Treaty of Rome supplemented by the Single European Act , the Treaties of Maastricht , Amsterdam and Nice , and now the draft constitutional treaty , as the common market has been enhanced with a single market , a single currency and policies in justice and home affairs , foreign and security arrangements and now energy . 
You have also seen - as have some others of us of more recent vintage - a profound change in what the European Union is all about . 
It is no longer a Union to guarantee peace and security of food supply , but a Union which has to be capable of meeting the three big challenges we face : rapid world population growth and migration , energy resources and climate change , and internationally organised crime linked to terrorism . 
Hitherto , the drive for the building of this Union has come from within . 
Mr Poettering , you have the opportunity to lead this House at a time when it is increasingly becoming the dynamo of European integration . 
It is increasingly to the European Parliament that Europeans must look : a House resurgent and outspoken , holding the Council and the Member States to account when their action against terrorism rides roughshod over the rights we cherish ; forging consensus - which escapes the Commission - on the single market in services or on consumer protection measures ; working with national parliaments to scrutinise the executive , ensuring the law is respected . 
In short , this House is coming of age . 
Ideology has surpassed nationality as the main determinant of voting behaviour . 
It is true that this House does not yet possess a right of initiative or the right to propose the President of the Commission , but neither is now unthinkable and increasingly people believe that both would enhance our Union 's culture of democracy . 
Therefore , Mr Poettering , I hope that you will use your two and a half years to grasp the need for reform of this House ; to give us a Parliament better equipped to provide such leadership ; a House that meets in full session every week ; a House that concentrates on profound political choices rather than voting on hundreds of amendments to move semi-colons ; a House that uses its new powers of scrutiny to the full to recall and re-examine our laws . 
When you were first elected , this Parliament was a consultative assembly , designed to give a pro forma cover to decisions taken by bureaucrats and diplomats . 
Now it is a cornerstone of our European home . 
In 13 years of codecision , that one function has developed the organs of this body , and transparency has given oxygen to our bloodstreams . 
I should like to say to Chancellor Merkel that codecision is now needed in all areas of policy-making if the checks and balances of democracy are to work at European level . 
The fact is that the Union makes decisions that are binding on Member States without proper democratic or judicial control , exposing us to censure by the Court of Human Rights or the constitutional courts . 
We had a close shave when the German Constitutional Court examined the framework decision on the European arrest warrant and came very close to contesting its legitimacy . 
Mr President , the years 1914 to 1989 on our continent were a 75-year rage of self-mutilation . 
This year , with Bulgaria and Romania in our Union , we can put to rest the ghosts of that period . 
However , the roots of freedom lie in courage . 
I believe there is a German word ` Zivilcourage ' : you , Chancellor Merkel and President Barroso need to muster the collective courage to take our Union forward as a true democracy , to create what Winston Churchill called in 1945 ' a wider patriotism ' and a common citizenship for the distraught people of this turbulent and powerful continent . 
The type of fraud combated under the programme must be tackled in order to retain the tax base of Member States . 
I especially support the amendments aimed at improving the comparison between the political will expressed in Parliament 's remarks on the budget and the actual implementation . 
I believe the basis of the EU waste policy should be the protection of the environment and not to facilitate the trade of waste . 
The ` polluter pays ' principle , the principle of producer responsibility in the EU waste legislation as well as the implementation of concrete targets for prevention are important aspects of this report that I favour . 
Cooperation with Turkish authorities and civil society is needed in order to improve women 's rights and the report suggests this . 
In particular , in light of the country 's candidacy for EU membership , respecting human rights , including women 's rights must be made a priority . 
There are persistent problems with women 's rights such as : Violence against women , including honour crimes ; lack of education for women and girls ; the decrease in women 's participation in the labour market . 
I am pleased to support a report which recognises the need to address these issues and gives concrete suggestions for how we can achieve this . 
However , the rights of women need to be closely monitored . 
All births should be officially registered regardless of gender . 
As for women in politics , more work could be done to encourage , nurture and help women into elected office . 
However , we should remember that in the EU there are still countries whose female representation in national politics falls short of the mark . 
In the UK , it will take 200 years before women are equally represented in the House of Commons . 
We must do all that we can to address gender inequalities where they occur . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , EU growth in 2006 hit 2.7 % - the highest in six years . 
Unemployment is at its lowest since 1998 , at 7.9 % . 
One is tempted to say , ` well done ! ' , but that 2.7 % growth has to be measured against 9.5 % in China and India , and our 7.9 % unemployment rate against under 5 % in the United States and 4.1 % in Japan . 
In this light , the Lisbon goal of making Europe the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010 sounds not only ambitious but unrealistic . 
We have already dropped the target date . 
Can we maintain the target ? 
Well , we hold this debate annually ; some Member States perennially ignore our exhortations . 
The Kok Report told us two years ago that the objectives of Lisbon have become muddled and the results are unconvincing . 
It is because some Member States have tried to muddle through instead of reforming their ways . 
Lisbon will only work if reform is made Europe-wide . 
Solidarity can not mean those governments who have gone through the tough process of reform now having to bail out those who have not . 
In some countries , even the opposition does not see the need for reform ; it makes promises to citizens which can not be kept and , I am tempted to say : 
( FR ) It might be said that there is a dire need in this case for a reality check . 
A knowledge-based economy needs a willingness to learn . 
We in Europe can learn from each other . 
The way to modernise social protection and benefit systems is to bring in more flexibility . 
Youth unemployment is far too high , but protecting our citizens does not mean that we have to protect uncompetitive jobs . 
The social safety net should not prop up failing businesses , but help those affected to reintegrate into new business opportunities . 
My group believes , too , that investing in green technologies is key to containing climate change and catering for energy security in Europe . 
Energy is literally the driving force of our economy , and , as our Energy Ministers meet this week in Brussels , they must rise to the challenge and have the courage to open up the energy sector to greater competition and flexibility , not just separating infrastructure from supply . 
Building a true European energy market is important but not sufficient : we also need to cut energy consumption , and I hope the Commission will be even more ambitious in future than it has been . 
We have got to create incentives for individuals to change their habits and make thoughtful purchases and investments through using the tax system . 
We also have to deliver proper implementation of European legislation , letting our citizens know what needs to be done , and Member States have to live up to their promises of economic reform so that we can give the green light to Lisbon . 
As human rights form a core value of the European Union and by extension the activities of the European Parliament , it is right and proper that the European Parliament as an institution discusses and investigates possible human rights violations within its borders . 
Abuses of human rights , torture and illegal deportation must be condemned in today 's Europe . 
I particularly welcome the amendments which seek to increase the role of the Parliament . 
Too many dolphins , porpoises and seals die needlessly due to the use of these nets . 
A standard definition should be welcomed in order that there can be no loop-hole in the use of these destructive nets . 
It has been used as an essential source to fund rural development schemes throughout the country . 
It is disappointing that for the second time Parliament has rejected these reforms which provide a sustainable approach to rural development . 
The vote today will again delay payments to farmers in Scotland and the UK . 
MEPs can not demand reform of the CAP on the one hand and then not support reform in practice . 
Our constituents time and time again ask for reform of the CAP . 
It is worrying that the national and vested interests of a few are being allowed to distort the urgent reform of the CAP . 
While I agree with the content of the Verts/ALE amendments and the commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30 % by 2020 , I believe that the amendment was too narrowly focused and I abstained from the vote on that particular amendment . 
The type of steps called for in this resolution , and collective action at the multilateral level are essential if climate change is to be combated . 
Perhaps it will be the argument of our carbon footprint , rather than any other , which will finally end our Strasbourg sojourns every month . 
After all , we as MEPs should practice what we preach . 
Further , I support the avoidance of environmental dumping as a crucial element of fair competition . 
Social and environmental aspects must be built into trade development . 
Part of this goal is about getting more women back into the workplace . 
During the Barcelona Summit of 2002 agreement was reached by Member States that by 2010 a third of children under three and 90 % of children aged three to six would be provided with childcare places . 
Apparently only five Member States have achieved this goal . 
If we want more women to enjoy the freedom of work we need to have the availability of quality and affordable childcare as a key political priority . 
A combined approach to the management of the spectrum , in order to achieve greater flexibility and market reponsiveness , will contribute to social and economic benefits arising from its use . 
There is a need to push broadcasters to use spectrum efficiently . 
In particular I support the call for the Commission to carry out and submit a study on compliance with Community labour , health and safety legislation and on respect for the social rights of workers on this type of vessel , and on their living and working conditions on board . 
I support a multiple approach , from prevention through the building of an alliance of civilizations , to joint police operations . 
The situation in Scotland is worsened by the fact that the UK Government imposes very high taxation levels on road fuels , further disadvantaging Scots traders and travellers . 
We also have in Scotland a significant offshore oil and gas resources , and it is essential that we maintain a set of economic circumstances which will encourage exploration and full extraction of that resource . 
My belief is that an independent Scottish government would ensure that all of Scotland 's energy resource potential can be maximised . 
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group . - Mr President , I should like to thank Mr Klinz for all his valiant work in getting this agreed . 
Although we support the compromise with the Council , it does water down the Commission 's original intent and , frankly , the Commission 's original text would have been better in our view . 
Mr Klinz , as I say , strove valiantly to keep as close as possible to the original intent and to improve on it . 
My group would have been happy to have tightened it , with more transparency and less wriggle room for protectionists . 
The Commission 's original deadline of 30 days for a prudential assessment has been extended up to a possible 90 days for non-EU acquirers , but the crucial point here is that at least there will be an absolute deadline . 
Thus , we can hope to avoid situations where a protectionist regulator can block a takeover by delaying tactics . 
In the interests of transparency , we would have preferred disclosure of the reasons for a supervisor 's decision , and this would have helped to develop a body of precedent and common practice around the EU . 
Sadly , there is a continuing preference in some Member States for secrecy . 
Once again , the threat of hedge funds was raised in the context of amendments tabled by my group , which were designed to avoid difficulties for investment managers . 
We must turn lip-service to the Lisbon Agenda into action , and this is one small step in that direction . 
The concept of a European standard for product-labelling recognising human rights and workers ' rights should be supported . 
There are still too many people in our world today , many of whom are children , living under modern-day slavery . 
With the bicentenary of the abolition of slavery being remembered on 25 March , we need to do all that we can to combat modern-day slavery . 
Corporate social responsibility helps us in this battle . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , a significant birthday is always a good occasion to take stock . 
Fifty years ago at the signing of the Treaty of Rome , what was in the minds of Europeans ? 
And yet the European Union is at the base of the security , prosperity and opportunity which our people now enjoy . 
We live in a Europe of freedom and security , of prosperity and opportunity and of societies and economies more open than ever before . 
Our generation has aspired to , and achieved , more than our parents could ever have dreamt of . 
But the Berlin Declaration must reflect less our pride in the past , more our determination for the future . 
President-in-Office , the process is depressingly opaque . 
Everybody likes a surprise on their birthday , but to debate a declaration without even a draft is bizarre ! 
You hinted at what it might contain , President-in-Office . 
Faced with the global challenges of world population growth and migration , of climate change , of internationally-organised crime and terrorism , the Declaration gives Member States the opportunity to explain to citizens why now , more than ever , the EU is so important , why we have to engage with countries beyond our borders and cultures beyond our ken . 
Europeans should not be afraid of this . 
What has made Europe strong is its openness . 
A retreat into fortress Europe , the anachronistic idea of nation states and protected economies , or Christian fundamentalism , would only catapult us back in time : a time when Europeans had only one citizenship , only one national identity . 
Our advice to the German Presidency is : keep it short and simple - the kind of text one might nail on to the door of a church in Wittenberg . 
Or if the Chancellor is too busy to go that far , at least on the Wittenbergplatz ! 
I hear that the draft is currently running to two pages . 
If that is true , it is already one page too long . 
My Liberal and Democrat colleagues in the Committee of the Regions have produced a one-page mission statement for the European Union , which I commend to you . 
Nine points says all that needs to be said : that European integration has been a success and that we must continue . 
I am pleased that a possible deadline of 2010 has been set for the ratification by Member States , as the European Community is not a party to the ILO or this convention and it is important that each Member State ratifies the ILO recommendations . 
Social services need to remain of high quality and accessible for all and the rules governing provision need to be set in legislation . 
I think it will be important to restore a proper balance of interests between the EU and the US following the decision of the Department of Transportation to withdraw its rulemaking on actual control of US carriers . 
The EU has adopted a Common Position on non-proliferation that constitutes a positive platform for a stronger effort in this field , notably by pursuing an effective multilateralism . 
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group . - Mr President , I would like to add my own congratulations to the rapporteur and thank him for his very constructive approach to our amendments as we were working on this in the committee . 
I am very pleased to support his report today . 
Coming from Scotland I have a particular interest and a particular perspective , as other Scots colleagues do , and I would remind colleagues firstly that peripherality is relative . 
Brussels is actually pretty peripheral if I am looking for Scottish football scores on a Saturday . 
Islands have a distinctive culture , a distinctive identity and a distinctive geography , which is something to celebrate , not pity . 
If the playing field is level , there is nothing wrong with Europe 's islands that will not be put right by what is right with Europe 's islands in their dynamism , their innovation and their potential contribution to the EU 's objectives . 
If Malta was in central Europe with good transport links and easy links to the rest of Europe , then it would not be Malta any more , it would be Munich . 
We must celebrate Europe 's islands as well as recognise their distinctiveness . 
Being an island means that there are specific issues which need to be dealt with and this report makes a number of solid suggestions . 
I hope that our Commissioner will give us specific assurances today that this report will be acted upon because there are a lot of good ideas in it and I would hope that this would not become another wish list that the Commission pays lip service to but does not necessarily do very much with . 
I would like to highlight a few specific points . 
Islands have specific disbenefits in interaction with the European Union single market and we must have up-to-date , accurate statistics in order to inform policy . 
Can our Commissioner assure us that we will work with Eurostat in order to make this happen ? 
Can our Commissioner assure us that this will actually happen ? 
On state aid , as other colleagues have mentioned , we must see a more realistic approach from the Commission in assessing state aid criteria for islands . 
Islands have specific economic factors which are not currently sufficiently taken into account and I would welcome an assurance from our Commissioner that we will review policy on this . 
Concerning state aid cuts , particularly in the field of transport to , from and within islands , in Scotland our own government has just squandered EUR 25 million on a very wasteful tender in respect of ferry services . 
On energy , islands have a clear natural advantage and we would like to see the Commission use all means available to encourage sustainable energy communities , in particular the European grid , and the abolition of domestic constraints . 
In Scotland with Shetland , Orkney , the Western Isles and Argyle and Bute we have the best wind , wave and tidal resources in the EU and a vast potential contribution to make to the EU 's energy and climate change objectives , but we are not developing these resources because we have seen insufficient investment in the grid . 
If the EU is serious about meeting the climate change challenges , invest in interconnectors to the Scottish islands and the Scottish islands will make a vast contribution to our objectives . 
Similarly , the UK Government is holding us back in terms of a discriminatory pricing system in access to the National Grid in the UK . 
Simply , the further away from the main market , the higher the connection charge is to feed electricity into the UK National Grid . 
I am firmly of the view that this is discriminatory under Article 7 ( 6 ) of the 2001 Renewable Energy Directive and I believe that the Commission must open formal proceedings against the UK for holding us back . 
The islands have a vast contribution to make and they can make it . 
There is nothing wrong with Europe 's islands that will not be put right by what is right with them , but we must ensure the playing field is level . 
In particular , I am in favour of the Amendments in line with the European Court rulings which stated that no individuals should be sent where they are at risk of maltreatment , torture or capital punishment . 
I believe that the implementation of economic and political reforms can be an opportunity for growth . 
In particular I am pleased that the report stated that the FTA must look at countries ' specific economic and social characteristics to entitle them to protect their most vulnerable economic sectors , such as agriculture and public services . 
In particular I am pleased that the report looks at ways of increasing the role of the Parliament in the defence of fundamental rights and in ensuring EU legislation conforms with international human right standards . 
The political , economic and social deficit suffered by the Central American countries deserves an agreement taking into account the asymmetries between both regions . 
The importance of islands in major Community policies is increasing with the expansion of the Union . 
I am pleased that this issue remains on the agenda as it is still a challenge for the EU . 
This report has identified the main problems of islands , such as higher prices , lower salaries and difficulty of access to the single market . 
In particular , I am pleased that the report contains concrete suggestions for actions to be taken by the Commission , most notably by increasing dialogue with local authorities on development aid , improving decentralisation of aid delivery and supporting structured dialogue between local authorities in the developing world and the EU . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Chancellor , I congratulate you on your achievements - text and consensus . 
Your celebration of the Union 's success was both timely and appropriate . 
It is largely to the European Union that we owe the security , prosperity and opportunity our citizens enjoy . 
` While Europe 's eye is fixed on mighty things , 
The fate of empires and the fall of kings ; 
While quacks of State must each produce his plan , 
And even children lisp the Rights of Man ; 
Amidst this mighty fuss just let me mention , 
The Rights of Woman merit some attention . ' 
Chancellor , you set us an example : we need more women at the highest levels in politics . 
Indeed , in current circumstances , perhaps only a woman could have secured agreement . 
President Barroso was right when he said that the institutions must respect diversity , but the Member States must promote unity . 
The impressive festivities in Berlin were replicated in too few other European capitals . 
Until all your colleagues in the European Council actively argue the case for Europe , day in and day out , no solid foundation will exist . 
Nor does it help , Chancellor , for the European People 's Party , your party , to claim all the credit for building this Union . 
The drafters of this vainglorious EPP declaration rightly praise Monnet , De Gasperi and Kohl , but their memory is selective at best . 
Thatcher , Chirac , Berlusconi : they were all EPP leaders too , but you seem to have overlooked their contributions . 
The Union is not the project of one political party . 
It belongs to us all . 
We hope , Chancellor , that the Berlin Declaration will herald a new departure . 
We look to the intergovernmental conference you have secured to put in place the institutional building blocks of the Union 's future . 
The new Europe , the Europe Berlin envisages , should be one where the Union helps its citizens to grasp the opportunities of globalisation and shows them solidarity in facing new global challenges ; one where democracy has the upper hand , and our values have the final word . 
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group . - Mr President , Mr Belet made reference to believing in the autonomy of sport . 
The report draws attention to areas where more cooperation or even regulation might be appropriate , but I believe the structure and organisation of the game of football is not one of them . 
Local , national and international leagues and competitions are best left to the football authorities to organise . 
Around here , when we refer to the term ` national ' we tend to mean ` of the Member State . 
The Member State is , of course , the building block of the European Union , but in football that is not the case . 
I and my Welsh colleague , Jill Evans , have tabled amendments 28 and 29 , which I hope will be adopted tomorrow . 
A football game which is being played this very evening illustrates why these amendments are important . 
My footballing nation , Scotland , is playing Italy , the world champions . 
Our amendments simply make it clear that ` national ' in football does not necessarily mean ` Member State ' , and nothing in this report or in the terminology of this report ought to in any way bring into doubt or undermine the status of the historic footballing nations of Scotland , Wales and England . 
I voted for this report as the Directive should ensure that European citizens have their payments processed more quickly by banks , that their cards will be more widely accepted in other countries and that their rights will be better safeguarded in the event of disputes . 
I believe that this will be an important improvement for European consumers . 
I was concerned about the negative references to Turkey in this report and as they were supported by the plenary I had no alternative but to vote against this report . 
The EPLP attempted to modify the Pieper report by removing the most contentious amendments . 
However , those amendments were carried and our efforts were unsuccessful . 
The EPLP voted against a very negative report in terms of its general view on future enlargement and its specific references to Turkey . 
I supported the Court of Auditors ' view that discharge can be given to all seven institutions . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , after 9/11 Le Monde announced : ` Nous sommes tous Américains ' . 
On economic , environmental and ethical grounds the United States Government has been shredding the values for which America enjoyed our respect . 
The challenge for the EU Member States is to resist US moves towards unilateralism , whether on trade policy , over Kyoto or in respect for international law . 
This will require the frank , forthright , and sometimes fraught , transatlantic dialogue on issues like the visa waiver scheme , extradition and ` open skies ' , which our Member States have thus far resisted . 
Indeed , President Bush succeeds in ` divide and rule ' of Europe at least as well as President Putin . 
This summit is a time for some home truths . 
Removing regulatory barriers and harmonising standards between the world 's largest trading partners must be our top priority . 
However , it should not come at the expense of securing a successful Doha round before Mr Bush 's mandate expires on 1 July . 
We must also use the summit to force recognition of the greatest security threat of the modern age - climate change - and to make the Americans agree to stabilise and reduce greenhouse gas emissions . 
The UN Security Council debated the issue for the first time last week , underlining the seriousness of the situation . 
But we must insist , too , that the administration clarify its position over allegations of torture , secret prisons and extraordinary rendition in the conduct of the war on terror . 
Not only is it the right thing to do but it is the only thing to do to restore America 's reputation . 
In the long term , only wider democratic scrutiny involving this House and the US Congress and Senate , perhaps under a transatlantic Schengen-style system , can strengthen our strategic relationship and prevent the kind of legal limbo that we are experiencing with passenger name recognition data or with SWIFT payment transactions . 
Success in the war on terror rests on balancing freedom and security , not sacrificing our civil liberties . 
The turmoil in Iraq is proof of what happens when we get the balance wrong . 
The US and the European Union should be helping to repair the damage and showing solidarity with Iraq 's two million refugees . 
The Americans have taken exactly 466 Iraqi refugees since 2003 . 
We know that they do not want to acknowledge a flight of refugees that is a symptom of their failure , but we need a clear and comprehensive aid budget and an agreement on sharing the burden of asylum claims . 
Finally , our negotiators must not be afraid to take the initiative . 
Paul Wolfowitz has undermined the World Bank 's moral authority . 
Our message to them must be that it is time for him to go . 
In conclusion , I owe to an American poet , Ralph Waldo Emerson , the thought that there is no such thing as history , only biography . 
Europe 's leaders should bear in mind that they will be judged as individuals for the courage they summon up in Washington . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , I rise because a member of my group , Mr Geremek , is to have his mandate as a Member of the European Parliament revoked by his own government with effect from 19 April . 
The powers under which the Polish Government is revoking Mr Geremek 's mandate are a ` lustration ' or monitoring law adopted just a couple of months ago which is currently under legal challenge in Poland 's constitutional court . 
This law requires all journalists , academics and elected MPs to sign a declaration stating that they never collaborated with the Communist-era security services . 
Mr Geremek has signed such declarations in the past . 
I would ask three things , Mr President . 
I would ask first of all whether Mr Kaczyński , who met Mr Pöttering last week , raised this issue with him ; secondly , whether it is right and indeed possible for a Member of this House to be stripped of their democratically-elected mandate in this way ; and thirdly , whether you would give this House the assurance that Parliament will act to protect Mr Geremek 's right to exercise his democratically-elected mandate with all possible haste . 
I voted against those amendments which aimed for the European Aviation Safety Authority to take on a security role . 
That is a separate issue and must not be confused . 
I voted against this report as it aimed to impose criminal sanctions on the end users of counterfeit goods , i.e. the consumers . 
I believe that it is the producers of these goods , not the consumers , that should be punished . 
I voted for this report to give protection in the case of accidents at sea . 
In particular , however , I voted against those amendments which sought to exclude inland waterways from the legislation , as I feel that there is a difference in liability cover between accidents at sea and those on water such as rivers . 
I voted for this report , which congratulates Croatia on some of the changes it has made in meeting the criteria for accession . 
I voted in favour of this Resolution as I believe in the dignity of the human being , which should never be taken away through sentencing to death . 
I supported these amendments to bring in new rules on public passenger transport services by rail and by road , which seek to rebalance the award of contracts for these services between the public and private sectors . 
I particularly support the move to repeal old EU legislation and replace existing national rules on competition in the public transport sector with standard Europe-wide rules . 
I voted for the Council 's common position on a proposal to deregulate pack sizes for pre-packed products . 
Once the legislation is implemented , it will be possible to sell many everyday consumer products in a wider range of sizes than at present . 
I believe that this is an advance for consumer interests . 
In particular I am glad that the legislation will take more account of the needs of disabled car users . 
I voted for this resolution which recognises the importance of Russia for Europe , especially in energy relations , but also highlights the need for democratic values and human rights . 
In particular I support the call for Russia to ` fully respect its obligations under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations ' , guaranteeing the protection of embassies and diplomats . 
The tension between Russia and Estonia requires a resolution . 
It is deeply concerning how quickly this difficulty over a local Estonian decision could escalate to energy supplies being cut off by Russia . 
Our dependence on Russia for our energy needs continue to worry those who have an interest in security of supply . 
60 % of Russia 's oil exports go to the EU , which amounts to 25 % of our oil consumption . 
In addition , 50 % of natural gas exports from Russia accounts for 25 % of the EU 's total natural gas consumption . 
I hope that on 18 May when the EU-Russia summit will take place , these issues will be highlighted and addressed . 
I agree with the general thrust of the Rapporteur 's stance on this issue . 
It is imperative that peace is brought to the Middle East , and the European Union is well placed to influence that process . 
This report addresses the key question of housing . 
While the EU 's competencies in this sphere are not extensive , it should intervene wherever possible , such as through the ERDF , to ensure that decent housing is provided . 
The Andria report is important to place the subject of housing on the European political agenda . 
With more and more people finding themselves excluded from the housing market , we must do all that we can to find solutions to the housing shortage . 
That is why learning from each other across the 27 Member States , sharing best practice and finding common solutions can help us tackle the growing problem . 
This report combines two key areas for EU action : regional policy and innovative capacity . 
I support the approach of the rapporteur . 
Innovation and future regional policy is vitally important to making the EU the most dynamic knowledge-based economy by 2010 . 
The point the rapporteur made , quoting Professor Hunt , the Nobel Prize Winner , that of the 20 top universities only three are from the EU and those three are located in the UK illustrates the need for a more strategic approach to funding research in Europe 's universities . 
If we want innovation we need investment in Europe 's higher education institutions . 
The need for action on better information and consultation for workers is urgently required . 
There is a need to review and to modernise current legislation as well as ensuring that Member States are properly implementing current information and consultation rules . 
The additional point reminding the Commission of the need for a coherent industrial policy and of the role social partners have to play should be noted . 
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group . - Mr President , much as I hate to disagree with Mrs Frassoni , we deferred the Aubert report at the last part-session and sent it back to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development . 
There seems to be little chance of achieving a legal base and for that reason all of the coordinators , bar the Verts/ALE Group , agreed that this matter should go to the final vote during this part-session - that vote is due to take place tomorrow . 
I have to ask my colleagues and all the other Groups who agreed through their coordinators in committee that we reject this proposal from the Verts/ALE Group and that we have the final vote tomorrow . 
rapporteur . - Mr President , before turning to the substance of this report , I should like to thank my shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation in the preparation of the report and in particular to thank the Commission 's Trade DG and Development DG , which , I am pleased to say , have been very keen to engage with Parliament on this particular issue . 
Finally , I should like to thank Pelayo Castro Zuzuarregui , the Parliament official I worked with on this report . 
He is leaving us for a year - we hope it is only for a year ! - to work for the Spanish Prime Minister . 
I have worked with him on this report and a number of other reports ; I have found it intellectually stimulating to be in his company and I wish him well . 
On the substance , Aid for Trade is a vital tool for linking developing countries to the global economy . 
However , I want to stress at the outset that it is not a substitute for the Doha Development Round , but a complement to it . 
It is clear that liberalising markets is not sufficient in itself to link developing countries into the global economy . 
You just have to look at the experience of the last 40 years : LDCs have seen their share of world trade almost halved from 1.9 % to 1 % , and this is despite tariff reductions following the Uruguay Round and other tariff reductions and recent efforts such as the European Everything but Arms scheme , which gives duty-free and quota-free access to developing countries . 
Therefore , liberalisation , which I would argue is important , clearly of itself has not been enough to engage the developing countries fully in the global economy . 
I also do not argue - and I want to make this clear - that Aid for Trade is of itself a panacea . 
However , it is quite clear that there is now a growing consensus on the benefits that Aid for Trade might bring . 
The WTO ministerial meeting in Hong Kong in December 2005 set out an ambitious work programme for Aid for Trade and called for more assistance to help developing countries into the global economy . 
This followed Mr Barroso 's commitment at the G8 Summit in Gleneagles of GBP 1 billion of European Union money and GBP 1 billion of Member States ' money to assist in the Aid for Trade budget line . 
While this is all most welcome and sounded quite dramatic at the time of the announcement , we have to realise that the increases are quite modest in substance : the European Union 's contribution will increase from a base of around EUR 850 million at the moment to EUR 1 billion , while the Member States - if they deliver - will go from EUR 300 million to a EUR 1 billion . 
Last October the General Affairs Council called for a trade strategy to map out how we fulfil these pledges . 
My report indicates some of the key points I hope we will see in that strategy . 
Firstly , in relation to the scope of Aid for Trade , I want the measurement of the Barroso billion to be against the existing base , which has two categories : one being trade policy and regulation , the other trade development . 
However , I welcome the fact that the WTO task force has added three further categories : trade-related adjustment , trade-related infrastructure and productive capacity . 
These are vital aspects of the Aid for Trade agenda and I hope additional resources can be found to assist developing countries to deal with such matters as the phasing-out of preferences , reductions in government revenue as a result of tariffs being lowered , or help in adjusting to new competitive pressures due to regionalisation , such as EPAs . 
My report argues that Aid for Trade should be demand-led and country-owned . 
In this context , the WTO 's enhanced integrated framework should become the key diagnostic tool for developing countries , assisting them to identify where Aid for Trade can bring maximum benefits . 
Within developing countries we must also ensure that the private sector and civil society are engaged with the process . 
While Aid for Trade undoubtedly represents a different approach to general development aid , it should , in my opinion , be based on the same fundamental principles of poverty reduction and sustainable development , and our main point of reference should continue to be the Millennium Development Goals . 
I am pleased that much of what we called for in this report was reflected in the Commission 's communication published in April , and , perhaps naively , I like to believe that was part of the intense interaction between the Commission 's DGs and the European Parliament . 
I hope that , when the final joint EU trade strategy is adopted over the summer , it will also be reflected in that strategy document . 
I have called in my report today for biannual reporting back to Parliament so that we can check that the Member States and the Commission have delivered on both the quality and quantity of the aid that they are promising . 
All institutions so far have shown a willingness to deliver collectively on what I believe is an important strategy that can make an important , if modest , contribution to linking the poorest countries of the world into the global trading system . 
I supported these Amendments to Daphne III , the EU 's specific programme to prevent and combat violence against children , young people and women . 
I am pleased that the third phase of Daphne ( 2007-2013 ) has an increased budget of EUR 116.85 million . 
In addition , I am pleased that the bureaucracy will be reduced so that NGOs have easier access to the programme . 
I fully support the work of the rapporteur in combating violence against women . 
The DAPHNE programme helps in tackling this issue across the EU and those who fail to support this report today should be condemned . 
Water quality is essential to our environment and I am pleased to see that through European action we have witnessed improvements . 
I believe that the proposal of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Food Safety to look at the effectiveness of all Community legislative acts with a direct or indirect impact on water quality is a step in the right direction . 
I supported the resolution on organic food products which builds on the report in March to introduce stricter rules governing organic food products . 
I believe that this can increase consumer protection . 
Mr President , I am delighted today to support my group colleague in her report 's assertion that organic production and labelling represent a crucial area of EU production in need of protection . 
As the market for organic food grows it is vital that consumers feel safe in the definition of what is and what is not organic . 
We in Scotland have a thriving organic sector and I want to see that flourish . 
A stable labelling and definitions framework will assist that . 
As Amendment 7 was not carried , the EPLP was left with no option but to vote against the report . 
This report could jeopardise the historical fishing rights of the Scottish fleet and sets a dangerous precedent for future fishing agreements . 
Mr President , I am pleased that this important report gained the majority it did , because the gradual loss of biodiversity should concern us all . 
The implications of the moves to biofuels should in particular be kept to the forefront of our attention . 
While nobody would deny that we need to move away from fossil fuels , the knock-on effects of major shifts in production to monocultivation of ( often GM ) biofuels could have long-term effects that are even more detrimental , and this report does well to keep this issue on our agenda . 
The fact that 52 % of freshwater fish species are threatened with extinction whilst cod and other fish stocks are at worryingly low levels should be a wake-up call for action . 
I agree with the rapporteur that biodiversity loss is as important as climate change and that Member States must show greater political will to prevent the loss of biodiversity . 
I am also pleased to see that the amendment condemning deep-sea bottom-trawling and other unsustainable fishing practices was carried . 
While this report had some negative elements , such as its call for a delay of the Trade Defence Instrument Review and the unprecise nature of the language on liberalisation ( which has opened up the possibility that certain aspects of liberalisation may be negotiated upon which were controversial at the WTO level ) , I felt on balance it was a report to be supported . 
The introduction at Committee stage of paragraphs on the need for Core Labour and Environmental Standards to be integrated into the EU 's trade deals , and of additional references to development considerations , made the report more rounded . 
While it could have gone further in its considerations of development issues , it is my view that during the current generation of bilateral trade deals the targeted countries ( South Korea , India and ASEAN - given that in ASEAN there will be special and differential treatment to take account of developing countries ) will be well placed to defend their interests during negotiations . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , on behalf of my group I should like to welcome Mr Prodi back to Parliament . 
Prime Minister , 50 years after the Treaty of Rome was signed , you have returned Italy to its rightful place at the heart of Europe , and at the heart of the European project . 
With President Napolitano you have turned the osservato speciale into a partner speciale . 
Your cabinet , with names like Bonino , Amato and Padoa-Schioppa , fills my colleagues and me with confidence . 
We hear some criticisms of your first year in government , but we recall the faint hearts who made similarly dismissive remarks about your first year at the Commission . 
They were proven wrong . 
Enlargement , the euro : these are the jewels in Europe 's crown , so we will judge a government on its results , not on first appearances . 
It was Italy which , while others hesitated , led the European Union force into Lebanon , and Italy which pressed for a worldwide moratorium on the death penalty . 
You showed the world that Europe can have the vision and the capacity to act in unison for the good of all . 
We must seize that vision , for Europe 's future strength lies not in insulating itself against injustices , but in confronting the forces of pain and misery and destruction in the world beyond our borders . 
On our own continent we have healed the hurts of nations . 
Our interest now , indeed perhaps our survival , depends on exporting in the next 50 years the domestic achievements of the last . 
Global challenges like climate change , population growth and nuclear proliferation highlight what you have called ` the inadequacy of unilateralism ' . 
The world needs global mechanisms to create consensus on these matters . 
And the model ? 
None is better than our Community method , tried and tested over 50 years . 
And yet , even as Europe comes of age on the international stage , some are seeking to divide us from within . 
What should we say to the eurosceptics who say that the European Union is no longer fit for service , or that the European dream is menaced by globalisation , or that integration threatens national identity ? 
They listen , but they do not hear . 
As you told us in Berlin , marking Europe 's 50th birthday : 
( IT ) ` To create we need common sense , patience , faith , and also a grain of folly . ' 
A grain of folly , of self-belief , as well as grit and determination are indeed needed to face the future . 
For now is not the time for apathy or egocentrism . 
Our leaders must be bold : more Europe , not less , is the key to competitiveness ; more Europe , not less , is the key to security ; more Europe , not less Europe , is the key to a just world . 
That is why it is vital to reach an institutional settlement at next month 's intergovernmental conference . 
Only stronger institutions can build a stronger Europe . 
Mr Prodi , it was Leonardo da Vinci , your compatriot , who taught us : 
( IT ) ` He who is fixed to a star does not change his mind ' . 
Thank you for holding true to your vision . 
However , it remains important that this area of investment remain under close parliamentary scrutiny as it represents such a clear instance of ` EU added value ' . 
The EU has broken down barriers across Europe for many years , yet so many infrastructural barriers remain in energy and must be addressed . 
Scotland in particular has much to contribute to Europe 's energy needs but we need the necessary connections to do so , and I will be exploring all ways to lever EU funding into connections to maximise Scotland 's green energy potential . 
This is an important victory which will benefit consumers , who will be able to enjoy cheaper roaming costs by this summer . 
In particular I am pleased that the report asked the Commission to propose `` an appropriate instrument '' to codify the case law of the Court of Justice . 
Mr President , I was pleased to support this own-initiative report on the importance of Structural Funds to EU cohesion , as in Scotland we have vast experience of using the funds to develop our peripheral areas and regenerate our urban centres . 
At times it has seemed as though development considerations have not been foremost in the Commission 's thinking on EPAs . 
CSR should be at the core of European businesses activities both internally within the EU and externally and I was highly disappointed that these two groups did not support the steps outlined in the report . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , yesterday , in this Chamber , one of Europe 's great champions sketched his vision of a Union fit for the 21st century - a Union that is democratic , transparent and , above all , effective . 
However , crossing that Rubicon requires firm leadership , Mr Balkenende . 
The German Presidency has shown its strength by uniting Member States under the banner of the Berlin Declaration . 
It must pull them together again in the weeks before the European Council and the Intergovernmental Conference which follows if we are to win the war of public opinion and unite around a revised Treaty . 
Your Foreign Minister , Mr Verhagen , said : ` In today 's globalised world people are afraid of losing their jobs , their social security , their quality of life ' . 
Yet that is not an argument for less Europe , indeed , it may well be an argument for more Europe . 
Europe can not secure its energy supply , combat climate change or tackle terrorism with a retreat into unilateralism . 
To take key decisions on jobs , security and quality of life , the Union needs an end to unscrupulous use of national vetoes . 
To address the democratic deficit , it needs greater democratic accountability . 
To maintain its international prestige and internal effectiveness , its institutions must change with the times . 
None of this is possible without the substance of what was agreed in the European Convention , and that substance must be maintained , whatever cosmetic surgery you try to effect on the surface . 
We are not just talking about ideology here : we are talking about people 's jobs , their quality of life and their long-term prospects . 
It is time that you , and others like you , retook the initiative and brought Europe back to their people . 
Nobody here is seeking a European superstate - diversity of customs , history and language will ensure that . 
However , we are seeking a European ` superpeople ' , a united people . 
Too often our heads of government have taken the advice of the English Conservative Prime Minister Arthur Bonar Law when he exclaimed : ' I must follow them ; I am their leader ' . 
But populism can not move Europe forward , nor cement our quality of life , international influence or economic strength - only solidarity can do that . 
When concerns over the so-called symbols of a superstate - like flags or anthems - supersede debate on real issues , then it is time for a change of strategy . 
Your public demands energy security ; it demands a European environment policy ; it demands common action on migration . 
From the new Treaty , they will get it , for the tools are already in the text . 
So sell that to your people , instead of sidestepping the issues . 
Stop letting the tail wag the dog , and lead the Netherlands back to the heart of European decision-making , as befits the founder status of your country in our Union . 
In conclusion , Prime Minister , I would say , do as your countryman Justus Lipsius advised : be stoical in adversity , embrace necessity and be constant in your faith in Europe . 
For your people 's peace , prosperity and security depend upon it . 
in writing . - Kashmir has suffered more than its fair share of tragedy , the most recent being the devastating earthquake . 
When the time is right the people of Kashmir must be given a voice in determining their future . 
While I want to see further reform of CAP I accept the Rapporteur 's argument that this should not be by the `` back door '' . 
I voted for the Glattfelder Report on the Common organisation of the market in cereals not because I entirely support its contents but because it is in line with CAP reform . 
I also accepted as a compromise the phasing out of public interventions to support cereal crops . 
I voted for the Gierek report but against all amendments which could have led to reviving discussions on the Computer Implemented Inventions Directive . 
Given the efforts to find a majority in the first place for this directive it would not have been helpful to reopen the debate . 
I welcome the report by Bill Newton Dunn on tackling organised crime . 
It is vital that the EU has the necessary tools to promote and strengthen a coordinated strategy to tackle organised crime . 
The roles of Europol and Eurojust need to be enhanced and the public need to be made more aware of the EU 's role in this matter . 
I voted for this report , which is more balanced than the text put to Committee . 
I abstained on the amendment which expressed regret at the suspension of the Chief Justice of Pakistan not because I disagree with the criticism but because I did not see it as relevant to this report . 
I voted for the amendment calling for a plebiscite at a future date because I believe that the people of Kashmir should be in charge of their own destiny . 
I supported the resolution on Estonia , which showed solidarity with the country in the face of interference by the Russian authorities in the internal affairs of Estonia . 
In particular , I support the call on the Russian Government to respect the Vienna Convention on the protection of diplomats . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , as Mr Schulz said , there can be no justification for the actions of Hamas militants , however badly the Palestinians have been treated . 
And yet , if one year ago the international community had not reneged on its commitment to democracy in Palestine , if we had not refused dialogue with Hamas moderates and suspended direct aid payments to a freely elected government , the situation would not be as bad as it is today . 
Financial sanctions designed to force recognition of Israel or to push Hamas out of power altogether have simply made the Palestinians more desperate and prospects for peace more precarious . 
A two-state Palestine is emerging , riddled by violence , sectarianism and fear , while a two-state solution to the conflict is moving further away . 
Liberals and Democrats are disappointed - though not surprised - by what has come to pass . 
A year ago , we warned that Palestinian suffering would lead to greater extremism , particularly in Gaza 's prison conditions , where 1.4 million citizens have been systematically sealed-off and starved of their basic necessities . 
Last week 's violent takeover of Gaza bespoke a lack of respect for the rule of law , which is a de minimis requirement for any legitimate government . 
If Hamas is not careful , it will have betrayed its cause and , in the words of Saudi Arabia 's Foreign Minister , ` put the last nail in the coffin ' of the dream of a Palestinian state . 
Unless we want civil war to triumph over unity , all sides must face the facts : their refusal of dialogue has got them nowhere . 
To that end , my Group welcomes Prime Minister Salam Fayyad 's determination to restore security and President Abbas 's commitment to dialogue . 
We welcome resumption of direct aid to the Palestinian Authority and the prospective release of up to USD 800 million in Palestinian tax revenues by the Israeli Administration . 
However , we caution against supporting the West Bank administration at the expense of Gaza . 
If you consider the strip a ` terrorist entity ' - as Israeli officials have called it - you will not bring the region any closer to peace , you simply create more insecurity as a desperate people , deprived of food and other essentials , decides it has nothing left to lose . 
Hamas control of Gaza was the nightmare that became reality . 
However , the European Union must not be prepared to take a back seat and watch as Iran becomes a player in the contest . 
If this year has taught us nothing else , it is that politics - and politics alone - can create prospects for peace in the Middle East . 
While Parliament , at least , kept talking , the Council and the Member States took to the sidelines . 
It is now up to the Council and our Member States to put democracy , human dignity and the rule of law back at the centre of proceedings and work to foster peace in the region . 
There is urgent need for efforts to reach the MDGs to be redoubled . 
This means wholesale debt relief and scaled-up , better coordinated and better targeted aid . 
I support many of the demands made in the report , such as those calling for national parliaments and civil society to become more involved in the process of national aid programming in the ACP . 
in writing . - I have become increasingly concerned by the rise of racism and xenophobia across the EU , both in new Member States and established Member States . 
In a Union which has the free movement of people as a central pillar , this is doubtless an issue which requires Community action . 
Indeed , initiatives like the European Year of Equal Opportunities , which we are currently in , are key to spreading best practise in eradicating discrimination . 
It is important that these efforts are redoubled in order to counter the rise in Islamophobia , Anti-Semitism and discrimination against other minority groups , especially those from new Member States . 
We , as a House , and all of the European Union institutions and Member States must do our utmost to rid Europe of the scourge of racism and xenophobia , and make clear that it will not be tolerated . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - President-in-Office , congratulations on a green light for Europe and a grand legacy for your leadership . 
Action on climate change and energy security had made yours a noteworthy Presidency . 
Securing agreement for reform of our Union has made it a great Presidency . 
Joseph Conrad once observed ` Being a woman is a terribly difficult task , since it consists principally in dealing with men ' . 
Nowhere was this truer than in the Council , where many of your counterparts seemed intent on burying Treaty reform . 
It is a tribute to your character that you convinced , cajoled , and cautioned agreement where none had seemed possible . 
Who in the months following 2005 's referendum results would have thought that institutional reform was still within reach ; that Europe 's leaders would recognise the need for common action on energy security , climate change , foreign policy or shelve requirements for unanimity in the Council in favour of qualified majority voting in 36 new policy areas ? 
We are pleased too that you recognised Europe 's growing political pluralism by giving Parliament three representatives at the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference . 
Combined with making justice and home affairs subject to parliamentary scrutiny , this proves that European democracy has come of age and that this House is now an equal partner in governance . 
Agreement came at a price , however , and that price was not simply a derogation here and an opt-out there . 
The real casualty was idealism : losing the symbols of our Union and replacing the relative simplicity of the Constitutional Treaty with bureaucratic opaqueness is a pity . 
As a result , your new Amending Treaty reads like the instructions for building a Japanese pagoda translated into English by the Chinese middle-man . 
As for the content , President-in-Office , the devil will be in the detail . 
Your propensity to play the fairy godmother means , I am afraid , that the naysayers - die Verfassungsfeinde heissen sie immer noch in Bayern - were rewarded in proportion to their negativity , while the friends of the Constitution - the silent majority - received precious little for supporting the Constitution signed by all Member States in Rome . 
And so the French and the Dutch struck again with a side-swipe at fair and open markets . 
The full effects of the British and Polish derogation from the Charter of Fundamental Rights are not yet known . 
For Liberals and Democrats it beggars belief that a British Prime Minister is depriving UK citizens of the rights which made his country respected - and which are now guaranteed to other citizens - in order to pander to the popular press . 
Only time will tell whether the changes to the text are cosmetic , or a wholesale attack on Europe 's fundamental civic and market values . 
However , politics is always a matter of bricolage . 
While the result is not flawless , the edifice you have built is sturdy : the roof should not leak as long as the building blocks of progress are cemented by the mortar of determination . 
Let us remind national leaders here and now that Europe demands give as well as take . 
Until they resolve to cooperate fully , the Union will never be fit for purpose . 
President-in-Office , six months is barely long enough for an EU President to shine . 
However , as the leader who brought us the promise of a permanent President your reign was memorable . 
Who else can boast of ending deadlock in the Council and ridding us of the much-maligned pillar structure ? 
Who else can claim credit for creating a European Diplomatic Service and a High Representative to boost our role on the world stage , and who else would have achieved so much without action which was hart aber herzlich ? 
The Portuguese Presidency must harness this momentum to ensure future developments are driven not by events beyond our continent , but , in the best tradition of the European Union , by idealism within . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , President-in-Office , the programme that you have presented combines clear goals with ample ambition . 
Success is not immanent , but Liberals and Democrats have high hopes of a European Union double act under the two Josés . 
Indeed , you appear to compete for the laurels of economic liberalism . 
As Britain 's newspaper the Daily Mirror might say , ` It 's the only way , José ! ' 
Who , if not you two , could convince Europe 's governments of the beauty of Lisbon and the importance of its agenda ? 
Put the ` is on ' back into ` Lisbon ' - the need to consolidate public finances , the commitment to financial discipline and debt management , the drive to complete and strengthen the single market . 
Yes , even in the face of populist opposition in your own parties . 
It is not just in Asia that the free market has lifted millions out of poverty - it has done the same for 50 million people in the EU in the last 10 years alone . 
Most importantly , there is a need for sustainable economic recovery in Europe to be built on job creation rather than on rigging the rate of exchange to ratchet up export-driven growth . 
Therefore , my group particularly welcomes your initiative to open the discussion on flexicurity . 
We have to modernise social protection and benefit systems to face the challenges of a global market . 
Let us protect workers , not uncompetitive jobs . 
Our social safety net should protect not failing businesses but rather those in them , helping them to find new employment opportunities . 
The only European social model that matters to me is the one that preserves our prosperity by preparing our people for the future . 
And , yes , if we talk about the future , let us not forget the fight against climate change . 
Let us look at how we can merge the Gothenburg and Lisbon Agendas and use innovation in green technologies to help us be more innovative , create more jobs and lead the world in setting the climate change agenda . 
President-in-Office , you are right to place an emphasis on Africa - discovered , exploited and then abandoned by Europeans . 
The fact that you have called the first EU-Africa summit in seven years says it all . 
It has been the forgotten continent for far too long . 
Africa needs Europe , and Europe needs Africa if we are to deal successfully with migration , disease and climate change . 
China offers money for natural resources and weapons for money . 
That is the road of 21st century economic colonialism and it is the wrong way forward for Africa . 
But Europe must avoid talk of the dimensions of empire . 
Let us learn from the past and forge a new and generous partnership . 
In justice and home affairs , we appreciate the fact that your Presidency will focus on a series of measures strengthening the area of justice in the European Union . 
After the revealing comments by Germany 's Interior Minister , Mr Schäuble , my group will be on the guard against the erosion of civil liberties that underpin our society . 
We want to see the framework decision on procedural safeguards agreed in the Council as a necessary accompanying measure to the European arrest warrant . 
And we caution against a response to terrorism which changes the nature of our society by fettering the freedoms for which you fought in the Carnation Revolution . 
Two weeks ago , this House applauded the Council for agreement on a mandate for the IGC , but last week we learned from some of your colleagues in the Council that they were hollow words . 
Well , that was rather an ephemeral victory . 
I believe I speak not only for my group but for many colleagues in this House when I urge that the package agreed at the June Summit should not be unravelled . 
From a school on the Sagres peninsula , your country gained world repute as a nation of navigators . 
As President-in-Office , you will need those skills to navigate through the treacherous waters of Council negotiations . 
We wish you good luck and fair winds . 
Boa sorte ! 
So Felicitas , Jose . 
It is a pity that the Treaty is not simpler to digest , but - after being butchered by the ballpoint pens of civil servants from 27 Member States - what would you expect ? 
Your famous poet Fernando Pessoa once wrote : ` No intelligent idea can gain general acceptance unless some stupidity is mixed in with it ' . 
Well , in this case , the culprit was national interest , which watered down , or rendered indecipherable , policies and practices that are in all of our interests . 
But the real tragedy is this : we saw not a single national leader return home flying the flag for Europe . 
Instead , they crowed about the opt-outs and the derogations and the exclusions which disfigure the text before us today . 
How do you guys expect to convince the people if you sound so unconvinced yourselves ? 
If the poverty of aspiration implicit in a minimalist treaty is reflected in your poverty of enthusiasm ? 
Look , it is your right to act as you choose , but it is also your responsibility . 
The only thing this Parliament need regret amongst the many successes is the process . 
The codes of transparency and democracy which drove the Constitutional Convention were a good deal preferable to secretive summits , and backroom deals in the wee small hours of Thursday morning . 
Issues of such importance should not be decided in such a kamikaze manner . 
Nonetheless , again : congratulations . 
I propose a toast , with my glass half full : two cheers for the Lisbon Treaty . 
Let us hope its advances move us forward faster , and convert cynicism into renewed belief . 
author . - Mr President , let me start by expressing my sympathy to the victims of the horrific bomb attack in Karachi . 
Our thoughts go out to all of those who were affected by that dramatic action . 
Pakistan is a nation which we in Europe should care deeply about . 
It is a great trading nation , it is an exporter of people , not least to this continent , and it is a vital ally in the fight against terrorism . 
Once again in Pakistan , the window is opening for democracy . 
We await the outcome of the court ruling on the legality of the President 's election . 
We call on President Musharraf to accept the outcome if it goes against him , but I also call on people in Pakistan and throughout the world to accept the ruling of the Court if it rules in favour of the President . 
I think it is the only basis on which we can move forward in the country . 
In relation to the election in January , I hope that the Government will pursue and continue to prepare for that election , and will make it possible for Ms Benazir Bhutto to campaign in a secure fashion . 
In saying that , I know we imply that the Government was behind the bombing ; I do not believe that , but we need to make sure that the security of all the candidates is guaranteed and the Government does its best to protect Ms Benazir Bhutto . 
I also believe that Mr Sharif should be allowed to return to the country and campaign if he so wishes , and again have his security guaranteed . 
That is the best hope for the future of Pakistan , and it is the best hope for relations between Europe and Pakistan : that we get a democratically elected parliament in January , with the President out of uniform , in ` civvies ' . 
in writing . - Pakistan is a vital ally in the war on terror . 
As a result it has faced enormous internal pressure and threatened instability . 
President Musharaff has responded to this situation by declaring a state of emergency . 
The way to fight anti-democratic forces is with democracy . 
I am convinced such a debate would reveal that the vast majority of Pakistanis reject extremism and fundamentalism and wish to live in a country at peace with itself , at peace with it 's neighbours and on good terms with the West . 
Unfortunately the past two and a half decades of centralised Brussels control in the form of the CFP have been disastrous for those communities . 
A thriving market with job security are not achievable within the context of the CFP and control of fisheries management must be returned to the nations dependent on fisheries . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Madam President , I much admire the contribution of China to the development of world civilisation . 
In terms of technology , in terms of society and in terms of culture , China has probably contributed more than any other country to the development of humankind . 
Two days ago , on the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights , the Union proclaimed its commitment to the ` promotion and protection of human rights throughout the world as a cornerstone of our external action policy ' . 
I wonder what the world is coming to when the European Union , the self-styled protector of universal , interdependent and indivisible human rights , fails to speak out clearly against one of the world 's worst human rights abusers . 
I suspect that both the Chinese and others may come to regret the decision to host the Olympic Games in Beijing . 
Not only does China continue to execute more people than the rest of the world combined but it has clamped down dramatically on internal dissent and media freedom in advance of the Games . 
That contract has not been made public . 
Because , if the world saw the complete and total disjunction between Chinese promises and Chinese practices , we would have no choice but to boycott Beijing in the same way that we boycotted apartheid South Africa . 
I do not believe in boycotts . 
I have also maintained that engaging with a China committed to reform and opening would bring greater fruits than empty threats . 
But President Hu Jintao has to accept that a deal is a deal . 
The Host City Contract , the human rights clause in the Chinese Constitution , the Universal Declaration of Human Rights - these are promises made to China 's citizens . 
If China wants the Olympics to prove its legitimacy and credibility to the world , then in return it must prove that it is willing to honour its human rights commitments : by improving media freedom in line with the Olympic pledges , by suspending the death penalty in line with United Nations demands , by ceasing its support for military dictators from Burma to Darfur and by allowing elections by universal suffrage in Hong Kong . 
That is how China can win its place at the heart of the international community . 
I can tell Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf very quickly why I seek to make it voluntary . 
Last week in my constituency in Scotland , cast ewes - for the non-agricultural people in the Chamber ( there are not many people in the Chamber ) , they are old female sheep - were selling for GBP 2 a head . 
A year ago they were selling for GBP 60 a head ; this year , GBP 2 a head . 
I ask the rapporteur : how is a farmer who is only getting two quid a head for his sheep supposed to fit microchips and buy expensive scanners and readers that can comply with a mandatory electronic ID system ? 
This is the economic problem . 
The original Commission proposal was perfectly correct in seeking stakeholder consultation and in seeking economic-impact cost-benefit analysis . 
I have to remind the Members in this House that the UK has the biggest sheep flock in the whole of Europe - by far the biggest . 
The impact of this would be catastrophic with the economic situation the way it is . 
It would actually mean - if this becomes mandatory and we go by the dates set by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in their vote on Monday night , and we set 31 December 2009 as the mandatory introduction - that a whole group of sheep farmers in Britain will close down and go out of business . 
While we are wreaking this damage in a flock that already has the best traceability in Europe - we have absolute guaranteed traceability in the UK at the present time and the sheep farmers can not understand why we want to impose a new system of electronic identification when they already have high-quality traceability - we are importing sheep meat into the EU from outside , from countries that do not respect our levels of hygiene and welfare and the rigorous regulations that we apply to our sheep farmers . 
So , let us have a little bit of sensitivity here . 
I hope that when we come to vote on this tomorrow the Members will see the reason why we are asking for a voluntary system and not yet fixing a mandatory date for the introduction of electronic ID . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , it is often said that the exception proves the rule and this Presidency proved no exception ! 
Too often we are proffered fine words and vaulting ambitions from Presidency programmes honoured more in the breach than the observance . 
But , by resurrecting a Treaty that we all thought dead and buried , you have showed the improbable is indeed possible . 
From here on in , Lisbon will be etched on our memories as the moment Europe gave itself the tools and tenacity to make globalisation work for us , not against us . 
Politics would not be politics if we let major successes obscure minor failures . 
While the Lisbon Treaty is an undisputed success , one should beware of hubris . 
The Lisbon Summit , while symbolically important , may have pushed Europe and Africa further apart . 
Consensus on EPAs is receding as swiftly as EU assurances to put trade at the service of development . 
Where is the blue card for migration ? 
Or greater labour mobility within the Union ? 
Or linking the Lisbon and Gothenburg Agendas through full unbundling and cuts in CO2 ? 
On the positive side of the ledger : European leadership in Bali , an excellent agreement on next year 's EU budget , the constructive abstentions you engineered to give us a common policy on Kosovo are tribute to the skills of your ministers . 
Europe may have lost Beethoven 's ` Ode to Joy ' , but you have understood well what Shakespeare called the ` the tide of pomp that beats upon the high shore of this world ' . 
And , as befits the leader of a great seafaring nation , you have caught it on the ebb . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Madam President , Liberals and Democrats welcome this package . 
We believe it to be the most important act of Mr Barroso 's Commission thus far . 
Climate change is the greatest challenge facing life on our planet , the biggest problem facing our governments , and a gnawing worry for our citizens . 
I am grateful to Mr Davies and Ms Ek for the work they have done within my group to make sure we have a firm and early response . 
It is important for the Commission to take action . 
National democracies are too often run by crisis management . 
Problems are not tackled until they have to be tackled , and sometimes action comes too late . 
California 's scientists warned us 30 years ago about climate change . 
We can no longer prevent it , but we can hope and strive to control it . 
Your proposals , President Barroso , recognise the overwhelming urgency of action . 
They will be hotly contested . 
Some will argue that they will hit profits ; others will argue that they will hit jobs , and we have heard hints of both . 
No doubt you have had heated discussions in the Commission . 
My group argues they can add to profits and to jobs and give our economy a new competitive edge . 
They are , in any case , essential to responsible stewardship of our planet and we will work with you to secure agreement on them as early as possible . 
in writing . - Mr President , I congratulate Ms Hall on this report , which contains a number of sold , sensible , achievable suggestions to encourage energy efficiency . 
Amidst the current fuss on generation and security of supply we risk losing sight of the fact that changes in building and equipment standards , as well as how we use energy , will in themselves allow a great deal of energy capacity . 
I am glad to support this report and hope that it will be the start of more measures in this direction . 
on behalf of the PSE Group . - Madam President , discards are an appalling waste . 
Vast quantities of fish are thrown away every year in European fisheries around the world : as much as seven to eight million tonnes . 
In an ideal world we would move straight to a complete and instant ban on discards . 
But the reality is more complicated . 
Mr Schlyter 's report recognises the complexity of dealing with the problem of discarding fish and I really welcome his inclusive approach . 
It highlights practical aspects including the cost of dealing with discards and what to do with landed discards , the costs of introducing more selective gear , the implications for the total allowable catches and quota regime if discarding is banned , and the need to give fishermen incentives to fish in a more sustainable way . 
It acknowledges that , since both the causes of discards and the measures needed to reduce them vary from fishery to fishery , no single solution will work throughout the Community . 
An amnesty on discards is not the solution as it may create a market in discards instead of encouraging fishermen to fish in a sustainable way . 
Given the levels of overfishing and concerns over fishing stocks including cod and bluefin tuna , we still need good management of existing stocks . 
The report also places the discards issue in the broader context of the problem of by-catches of seabirds and of sharks and it calls for a significant range of pilot discard projects with a geographical spread . 
I call on colleagues to support this report which makes an important contribution to dealing with the disgrace of discards . 
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group . - Madam President , the common fisheries policy ( CFP ) has been a miserable failure . 
It has failed to conserve stocks , it has failed to sustain our fishing-dependent communities and it has failed to win public support or credibility . 
One of the main reasons for that is the scandal of discarding . 
That said , I broadly welcome this report by Mr Schlyter . 
In particular , I strongly agree with the principle of positive incentives giving some reward to those fishermen who take steps to reduce or eliminate discards . 
I also agree that measures must be tailored to different types of fishery . 
It has long been a major flaw of the CFP that it has been over-centralised and inflexible . 
I draw attention to paragraph 15 , which welcomes the voluntary real-time closure scheme introduced by Scotland , an excellent example of the kind of initiative which should be encouraged and incentivised by the CFP at least for as long as we are stuck with it as a management measure . 
in writing . - I welcome this proposal for a regulation on population and housing censuses . 
In formulating a common set of European guidelines that allow for Europe-wide comparison of statistics , we will improve the EU 's ability to formulate legislation that is consistent with the changing needs of people around Europe . 
in writing . - With the renewal of the Lisbon strategy I stress the need for a real update of the Integrated Policy Guidelines , along with a greater role for the European Parliament in monitoring how the strategy is followed up . 
The focus should be on achieving a socially sensitive Europe that deals with the current economic problems we face without isolating those most vulnerable . 
The need for enforcement of a minimum wage in all Member States is one of the key ways that we can ensure that all European citizens enjoy a decent basic standard of living . 
I am satisfied with the resolution and have voted in favour of it . 
in writing . - Mr Özdemir 's report on the EU 's strategy for Central Asia deals with a key issue on the EU 's foreign policy agenda . 
I welcome its emphasis on attending to human rights in the Central Asian region ; an emphasis that the EU should apply to its external relations more generally . 
There exists little evidence of democratic advancement in the region , notably Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan , and any EU strategy for cooperation should attempt to engage these states in a drive towards the concept of democracy . 
As the report clearly outlines , Central Asia requires active EU energy cooperation in a bid to find mutually beneficial solutions to the current state of play in the energy market . 
I agree with Mr Ozdemir 's recommendations and voted in favour of the report . 
in writing . - It is essential that the Council follow up on the commitments made on climate and energy policy . 
Clearly the challenge will be to follow the rhetoric with actual delivery of objectives . 
Scotland has much to contribute in terms of renewable energy resources , including wave , tidal , offshore wind and even solar energy . 
The new Scottish Government is working to the limits of its devolved power in trying to maximise the potential for Scotland , and to encourage connectability for our surplus electricity into European networks . 
Scotland would be in a much better position to contribute to Europe 's climate change objectives if we were full participants in the European Union as an independent Member State . 
An independent Scottish Government would be a constructive player in the EU , keen to develop the best interests of Scotland , obviously , but also willing to work with partners in Europe for our mutual benefit . 
on behalf of the PSE Group . - Madam President , I am glad to have the opportunity to speak on the Morillon report on fishing authorisations - or I should say the ex-Stihler report . 
As the original rapporteur , I was compelled to remove my name from the report when the Committee on Fisheries rejected my key amendments . 
The report was supposed to simplify fishing authorisations . 
Instead , the Commission over-reached itself with an unnecessary article awarding itself the right to reallocate fishing quotas . 
If supported unamended , this report will unjustly discriminate against northern countries and their historic fishing rights and jeopardise relative stability . 
To give the Commission carte blanche to reallocate fishing opportunities beggars belief , especially when fishing opportunities are scarcer . 
We have to ask ourselves whether we are facing a fishing free-for-all in the North Sea . 
This is not in the interests of Scottish fishermen , nor is it in the interests of protecting and conserving stocks . 
The next review of the common fisheries policy is due by 2012 and this report is a wake-up call that historic fishing rights are under threat in the North and Baltic Seas . 
I have retabled key amendments for the plenary and urge colleagues to support them . 
If these amendments are defeated , I urge voting against this report . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the Ouský report in order that decisions taken regarding the movement of pets be taken only after full consideration of the scientific assessments . 
I would ask the Commissioner to clarify three points for us , and I hope he will come back at the end of the debate and do that . 
First , that the collision and sinking of the New Flame happened not in the Bay of Gibraltar , which the Spanish call the Bay of Algeciras , but on the south-east side of the Rock of Gibraltar , off Europa Point in the Mediterranean Sea . 
Second , that the New Flame incident had nothing to do with the bunkering of oil , as the ship was carrying scrap metal . 
Third , that there have not been seven oil spills , as claimed in the oral question , but one minor spill during a storm on 9-10 February . 
Seven hundred and eighty cubic metres of fuel were pumped off the vessel in the month following the incident , none of which was spilt . 
I would be grateful if the Commissioner would confirm that to the House . 
If there is oil on the coast , it is more likely to have come from the Sierra Nava , which broke anchor in a storm earlier in the year , ran aground and leaked oil . 
Perhaps the Commissioner would also comment on the cooperation between the Gibraltar authorities and the Spanish authorities . 
I believe that cooperation was exemplary . 
Gibraltar is in compliance with all its relevant international obligations , and I would invite my Spanish colleagues , particularly from the Partido Popular , to come with me to that part of my constituency , talk to the authorities and take a look at the wreck . 
There are indeed legitimate concerns over maritime safety and the danger of pollution , not just at sea , but also of the air and of groundwater , in the busy , heavily-populated industrial area in which Gibraltar and its Spanish hinterland are found . 
However , let us not allow the party-political devices of a disappointed opposition to colour our European considerations . 
on behalf of the PSE Group . - Mr President , you can not put a price on peace , but the series of PEACE programmes in Northern Ireland since 1995 have supported the peace process in Ireland with a goal of reinforcing a peaceful and stable society and promoting reconciliation in the region . 
I congratulate Bairbre de Brún on this own-initiative report , which describes the positive results and best practice gained from this EU programme . 
The peace-building aspect of the programme is crucial for the future of Northern Ireland and offers lessons for other EU Member States with a history of conflict . 
The PEACE II programme allowed for valuable exchanges of experience between areas - including Albania , Belarus , Moldavia , Serbia , Ukraine and Bosnia . 
I welcome the current discussion on the possibilities of creating a Europe-wide network of regions and cities that are coming out of conflict , that have experience in coming out of conflict or that are living with conflict and exclusion . 
Reconciliation is a long-term process and I support the continuation of the PEACE programme . 
Within the process it is important to involve local communities , and Mrs de Brún 's report highlights the wide range of projects including childcare , after-school projects , enterprise parks and small business enterprise , in both the rural and urban areas . 
Women 's groups played a very positive role in peace-building . 
I thank Mrs de Brún and I hope that all will support this constructive report . 
Permafrost and ice caps are melting , sea-levels and temperatures rising , largely due to human activity . 
Failure to act now means humankind will hurtle towards a tipping point from which there is no return . 
The deadlines for climate policy are set not by the European Union , nor by the world community : they are set by nature . 
And the bottom line is that - despite commitments in Kyoto - global greenhouse gas emissions are growing faster than ever before , up by a quarter since 1990 . 
Some scientists say CO2 concentrations have already gone too far . 
All agree the window of opportunity open to us to stabilise emissions and limit the rise in temperature to two degrees above pre-industrial levels will close within seven years . 
Democracies are run by crisis management . 
There are positive signs from the other big polluters , China and the USA . 
Beijing showed a new-found willingness to negotiate at the UN summit in Bali and all three US presidential candidates are committed to tackling climate change . 
What we must do - in the absence of further evidence , and with the resources at hand - is to approve the Commission 's climate change package , and I salute the work that my colleagues Lena Ek , Chris Davis and Vittorio Prodi have done in this area . 
We must also redouble our efforts to promote clean energy - and the amazing thing is this : we know how . 
Generating power from the desert sun , as a supplement to sources of renewable energy here in Europe , could speed up the process of cutting CO2 emissions at a stroke . 
Indeed , satellite-based studies by the German Aerospace Centre have shown us that , using less than 0.3 % of the desert area of the Middle East and North Africa , enough high-voltage electricity can be generated to supply current and future demand in Europe , the Middle East and North Africa . 
It has been done for 20 years in California . 
Plants are now being built in Spain and Morocco to do the same . 
If we could summon the drive and the determination , the guts and the grit , we could make the shift from oil while providing jobs , drinking water and better infrastructure for those bearing the brunt of climate change . 
We could combat climate change without having to turn off the lights . 
Our aim should be to put Europe 's money where its mouth is , to invest money in high-voltage solar thermal power generation and political capital in the human relations across the Mediterranean Sea to make it possible . 
We could find no better ammunition for use in negotiations with the UN to get a progressive international agreement in Copenhagen . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the Díaz de Mera García Consuegra report on the exchange of criminal record information between Member States . 
With increased mobility in the EU , it is important that Member States are able to keep each other informed of the criminal histories of EU citizens resident within their territories . 
Safeguards must , however , be applied and I welcome the proposed general prohibition of the processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin , political opinions , religious or philosophical beliefs , party or trade union membership and data concerning health or sex life . 
in writing . - The second reading on the Waste Framework Directive represents a wasted opportunity . 
The EU should be setting firm targets for waste reduction , not producing non-binding aspirations for some far-distant future date . 
My own group 's amendments would have strengthened the proposed legislation and it is a matter of some regret that they were unsuccessful . 
in writing . - I welcome Caroline Jackson 's report on the revision of the Framework Directive on Waste . 
To adequately contribute to our climate change objectives , the EU needs to renew its commitment to waste reduction and recycling . 
We would make considerable progress on this by introducing binding recycling and re-use targets by 2020 of 50 % for household waste and 70 % for construction and demolition . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou report and in particular welcome the additional role given to the European Maritime Safety Agency . 
EMSA was established in the wake of a number of serious maritime incidents and has an important role to play in minimising such future occurrences . 
It is right that EMSA 's interests should extend into the field of ensuring adequate training for seafarers . 
in writing . - The proposed simplifications of the regulations dealing with pharmacologically active substances in foodstuffs of animal origin are to be welcomed and , accordingly , I supported Mrs Doyle 's report . 
in writing . - It is to be hoped that the designation of 2010 as `` European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion '' will lead to real progress across the EU in tackling inequalities . 
The report correctly notes that the successful work in this area requires cooperation at European , national , regional and local level . 
My own nation , Scotland , still has levels of poverty which are quite shameful particularly given the country 's immense wealth . 
Fortunately we now have a government which is committed to tackling the social exclusion that they inherited from successive unionist administrations . 
The Scottish government 's commitment is wholly in keeping with the principles outlined in the Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou report which I happily supported . 
in writing . - 2010 will be the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion . 
I hope that the subject of child poverty across the EU will be highlighted and concrete action taken by Member States to eradicate child poverty . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the Casa report relating to the adoption of the euro in Slovakia . 
Slovakia , a country of just over five million people , has been independent for a mere 15 years . 
In that short time , Slovakia has developed both politically and economically and now the country is in a position to join the eurozone . 
The Slovak experience gives the lie to claims that Scotland is too small to become a successful and independent nation within the EU . 
in writing . - The Harangozó report makes some important points on social exclusion . 
The report rightly highlights that social exclusion and impoverishment exist in both urban and rural areas . 
It also notes the importance of regional and local authorities as well as the economic and social partners and relevant NGOs in developing strategies to combat social exclusion . 
However , this house failed to adopt my own group 's amendment relating to the Social Agenda and , accordingly , to citizens ' rights to a minimum income and to access to education and training . 
Accordingly , I abstained on the final vote . 
in writing . - I welcome the general thrust of the Schmidt report . 
The EU 's policies have a profound impact on the economies , environment and societies of West Africa and it is imperative that we take responsibility for our actions in dealing with West African nations . 
I deplore , however , Parliament 's decision to adopt amendment 1 and remove the reference to avoiding over-capacity in the fisheries sector . 
It is abundantly clear that over-capacity in any fisheries should be avoided and it is shocking that Parliament has voted in such a way to appease politicians in certain Member States . 
in writing . - I support the recommendations contained within the Rosati report . 
in writing . - A project on the scale of the Nordstream gas pipeline requires full and thorough examination of the environmental implications involved . 
Before the project can start , we must make sure that the project meets stringent environmental criteria . 
These views are reflected in my vote on Marcin Libicki 's report on the environmental impact of the planned gas pipeline in the Baltic Sea to link up Russia and Germany . 
in writing . - I voted in favour on the Weisgerber report . 
The potential of hydrogen as a clean form of power has long been recognised , and technologies in this area are constantly being improved . 
Nevertheless , hydrogen power can only be truly effective as a clean and green energy if the hydrogen comes from sustainable and , ideally , renewable sources , and this fact has been noted in the final report . 
in writing . - I welcome Anja Weisgerber 's report on type-approval of hydrogen-powered motor vehicles . 
The report is a positive step in helping to stimulate the industry to intensify research and development efforts . 
Encouraging the entrance of hydrogen-powered vehicles into the internal market will contribute considerably to achieving Europe 's climate change targets . 
I voted in favour of the report 's recommendations . 
in writing . - I welcome the swift action taken by the French presidency in working towards a solution to the conflict between Georgia and Russia . 
I therefore voted in favour of the resolution . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the resolution from the Legal Affairs committee . 
The Common Frame of Reference will be an important legal development , and we as yet do not know what form it will take . 
It is vital that this Parliament and stakeholders in all countries and legal systems are fully informed of all future developments . 
in writing . - I was able to support the De Rossa report and hope that the Commission fully takes on board the Ombudsman 's recommendations in relation to the rule of law and the principle of good administration . 
in writing . - The García Perez report deals with many important issues relating to gender equality , social justice and fundamental rights . 
One issue which is of increasing concern across Europe is that of human trafficking , which involves victims from both within and outside the EU . 
Combating serious organised crime of this nature requires a cross-border and multi-agency approach , and it is clear that the EU has a key role to play in this area . 
in writing . - While progress has been made on the issue of gender equality in Europe , we are far from full parity . 
The report highlights various areas that require the Commission 's attention , such as job quality and the need for better instruments to tackle violence against women . 
I would also support the call for Member States to urgently ratify the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings . 
I voted in support of Iratxe García Pérez 's report ` Equality between women and men - 2008 ' . 
in writing . - I welcome Eva-Britt Svensson 's report on how marketing and advertising affect equality between women and men . 
The global character of modern advertising demands a concerted European effort to encourage advertisers to move away from gender stereotyping . 
Self-regulatory practices in the UK are already quite rigorous , and I would hope that other Member States would be open to embracing similar measures . 
I therefore voted in support of the report . 
in writing . - Given the scientific uncertainty and ethical questions involved , I fully support calls for the Commission to bring forward proposals seeking to prohibit the cloning of animals for food supplies . 
in writing . - The cloning of animals for food supply , I feel , carries with it various risks both to human health and animal welfare . 
I am not convinced that embracing this type of technology for consumption purposes is beneficial to European citizens . 
I therefore voted in favour of calling for a ban on the cloning of animals for food supply . 
author . - I thank the Commissioner for her reply and for the fact that she did take action , and the action came after I put down the question . 
She will understand that there is a long delay between putting questions down and getting answers . 
But I want to reinforce the point that this money is Palestinian money . 
It is not under any circumstances Israeli money for them to withhold . 
Holding on to it is tantamount to theft , if not of the money then of the interest . 
It is used regularly as blackmail against the Palestinians , and I hope the Commission will continue to press the Israelis to release this money as soon as it is due to the Palestinians , rather than using it as yet another political tool . 
I voted in support of the report . 
It is good news all round . 
in writing . - I support this report which highlights the need to protect the 46 % of the world 's land which is wilderness and has not been significantly modified by human activity . 
There also requires to be more joined-up thinking in terms of how we can harness the Green Economy to help us through the current financial crisis by creating jobs , but also to give the EU the energy independence which we need . 
An investment in the EU Grid has to be addressed . 
in writing . - I support this report which is in favour of the rights of workers regarding parental and carers ' leave , providing a call for non-discrimination against carers , and more recognition for the work they do . 
in writing . - I support this report which calls on the remaining three countries which have not yet done so to implement the Council framework decision on combating sexual exploitation of children . 
I support the increase in the level of protection for children , in particular , on the Internet , and also on other developing new technologies . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , it is with heavy hearts that we debate once again what our Union can do to ease the pain in the Middle East . 
Looking at the recent conflict in Gaza , all the old familiar phrases apply : blame on both sides ; provocation by Hamas ; disproportionate response by Israel . 
But in the face of the recurring violence , we have recycled those tired phrases so often that they have lost whatever impact they once had . 
It is bad enough to see the airport , schools and sewerage systems blown up ; it is worse to rebuild them with European money knowing that they will likely be destroyed once again . 
Is it possible , is it credible , to imagine that Israel can assure us that this will not happen ? 
In any event , reconstruction and humanitarian aid from the European Union will not prevent future conflict . 
We need a new and positive approach , jointly with the United States , if possible , but without them if not . 
Last month 's violence and the outcome of this month 's election have changed the terms of the debate . 
Hamas is stronger politically , it is intact militarily , it is holding out against recognising Israel , and the expected coalition in Israel will be more hard-line than ever and broadly resistant to seeing a separate Palestinian state . 
Meanwhile , the gulf between the West Bank and Gaza grows ever wider , with the threat of a permanent division . 
The Council and the Commission have not really said what their response will be to this turn of events , and the Czech Presidency appears to want the matter off the agenda , but we can afford to wait no longer . 
With the situation in flux and neither Hamas nor the Israelis talking to one another , we must set achievable terms on which we can talk to both . 
Isolation has led only to despair . 
The time has come for diplomacy , delicate but determined . 
Well , perhaps , but let us first acknowledge that the policy failures , the dashed hopes and the creeping extremism of the past seven years have taken place under the Quartet 's watch . 
Its envoy , Tony Blair , has never even been to Gaza . 
If he went there , he could visit the site of the industrial area , which is one of his pet projects , designed to generate jobs , but levelled last month . 
The Quartet has to open its mind to a new approach and , if our partners within it can not take that step , then we should explore ways in which it might . 
Lastly , we can only prepare for the future if we acknowledge honestly what has happened in the past . 
There should be a free and fair international investigation into alleged war crimes in the Gaza conflict . 
The UNRWA and our own parliamentary committee have both reported alarming evidence of war crimes , and the allegations are serious indeed . 
If Israel is wrongly accused , its name should be cleared , but if it has committed those crimes , it must face up to its responsibilities . 
Our aim must be to forge an agreement for a peaceful and prosperous future on both sides of the divide , where enemies can once again become partners . 
However , the failure of our approach to date is written in spilled blood on the ground . 
Mr Solana , we must pioneer a new path to peace , and the European Union , if necessary , must take the lead . 
in writing . - The resolution adopted by this House reaffirms that , according to Article 14 of the UN Convention against Torture , any victim of an act of torture has an enforceable right to redress and to fair and adequate compensation . 
The morally bankrupt Labour Government has led the UK into an illegal war and has allowed its airports to be used for extraordinary rendition flights . 
The votes of the Unionist MEPs today adds further to this shame . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , if I understood you correctly , you are indicating that the presidency does wish to apply the recast procedure to the Krahmer report today and the Cashman report . 
In that case , my group requests that we delay the vote until tomorrow so that we can study the implications of this . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , I seek clarification . 
Is it the case that the President has ruled that we will apply the recast procedure to the vote on the Krahmer report today and the vote on the Cashman report tomorrow ? 
If that is the case , my group requests that we delay the vote on the Krahmer report until tomorrow , so that we can investigate the implications of the application of the recast procedure to that vote . 
in writing . - This report highlights the persistent inequalities in career prospects and opportunities between women and men in the performing arts sector . 
I support this report which urges Member States to take specific measures to encourage and promote women to further their careers where they are under represented . 
This report reduces CO2 emissions through new standards which tyres must reach , which will improve fuel efficiency and cut fuel bills . 
in writing . - This initiative creates a new European legal form intended to enhance the competitiveness of SMEs by facilitating their establishment and operation in the Single Market . 
I support the report which will lead to greater protection for workers and the information they are provided with by their company . 
in writing . - According to the Allianz Group report which was published on Monday , the recession is slowing the EU this year in reaching its goal of becoming the world 's leading knowledge-based economic area . 
In order for us to reach the Lisbon targets , we must do all we can , even in these tough times , to meet these goals . 
By meeting these goals , we will be able to see our way through the recession , making the EU stronger placed in the future . 
We must also keep to the Barcelona targets on childcare . 
I welcome this report which calls for funding to be provided to projects earlier and reduce the need for bank loans . 
in writing . - I voted against because due to the precarious nature of the stocks there should be a ban on the fishing of bluefin tuna until the stocks recover . 
rapporteur . - Mr President , firstly let me say that this has been a very good debate . 
We have had very positive contributions from both the Council and the Commission . 
It could be the basis for others , but each EPA has to have its own individuality , and we have to learn the lessons from the CARIFORUM negotiations as well . 
Secondly , I was delighted that the Council was able to make a commitment on aid for trade , to the effect that the Member States intend to deliver on that aid . 
I was pleased that both the Council and the Commission gave reassurances on access to medicines and that both the Council and the Commission reassured us that the five-year review will be a real review that looks at development objectives to make sure that they are being met . 
I was delighted that the Commissioner said she believed that regulation had to be in place prior to any liberalisation and opening-up of financial services . 
For some of us in this Chamber , that is also extremely important . 
She indicated - as we already knew , but it was important to have it on record - that nothing in these agreements forces privatisation of services in any of the Caribbean countries and that there is no expectation , through this agreement , that privatisation of public services will take place . 
I was pleased that she also made commitments on most-favoured-nation status . 
Based on the fact that what the Commission has said and what the Council has said are now on the record in this House , I would , as rapporteur , be delighted to recommend to the House that it should give assent to the Caribbean EPA . 
Let me turn to a separate issue , which is the resolution . 
A couple of my Conservative EPP colleagues have made comments about this . 
For the Socialists , there are still red lines in terms of the current state of the resolution , which is different from the assent vote . 
Actually , all the things that the Council and Commission have committed themselves to are our red lines . 
So if the House is supporting the Council and Commission , I see no reason why it should not support our compromises and compromise text and get those into the Parliament resolution . 
I hope that , at the end of the day , we can vote both for assent and for a consensual resolution that both opens up trade and makes very strong development commitments . 
For all the dark warnings about splits and strife , this European Council has produced a positive package and I congratulate the Czech Presidency on that achievement . 
We have a pledge of more money from the IMF , a promise of more support for Europe 's most troubled economies and an agreement on moving ahead with European supervision of the financial system . 
All these are welcome . 
And I was particularly pleased to see that the Council has saved Mr Barroso 's bacon by transferring five billion unspent euros into the recovery plan . 
Investment in transport , infrastructure and broadband connections will create jobs now and prepare Europe for the future . 
Meanwhile , money going to the Nabucco pipeline will ease our troubling energy reliance on Russia . 
We need a clear assurance from the President-in-Office that funds from the EUR 5 billion will actually reach that project , but also that investment in gas supply infrastructure will not be a substitute for renewables research . 
Green growth remains essential for our citizens ' security now and in the future , and so do the principles embodied in the Lisbon Strategy : flexicurity , the knowledge-based economy , employment regulations that are fit for purpose - these are key to a competitive economy and a successful single market . 
It is to the Council 's great credit that the protectionist language of the past cast no shadow over its conclusions . 
This is a false choice . 
Of course we need supervisory structures with real regulatory bite , but so too do we need counter-cyclical measures to deal with the realities of recession . 
The long term and the short term : both must be addressed . 
Our leaders must be clear about that at the G20 Summit . 
If we can not agree on our common cause then we can not hope to punch at our collective weight . 
America will come to the G20 with her own agenda . 
We must arrive with ours and together reach a deal that delivers for all . 
President-in-Office , last week at the Council you barely discussed the legal basis on which the next Commission will be formed , but it is no longer only Ireland which is unlikely to ratify Lisbon . 
I therefore urge you to convene the leaders of Council , Commission and Parliament before this House rises in May to agree on how to compose Parliament and Commission with legal certainty . 
There is a moment , President-in-Office , in the famed melody in Smetana 's Má Vlast , where cello and bassoon rise in crescendo from lugubrious depths to reach a seemingly impossible high note . 
See to it that domestic difficulties do not sap your stride . 
in writing . - The EU is India 's top foreign investor and biggest trading partner . 
Forging an economic alliance is therefore vital to both . 
I support this report because it stresses that the agreement should ensure that increasing bilateral trade brings benefits to the widest number of people and contributes to the Millennium Development Goals , including preventing environmental degradation . 
in writing . - I support this report which demands responsible and clear rules for Subcontracting in Europe . 
The report will protect employees who work for subcontracting companies by calling on the Commission to establish a clear-cut Community legal instrument introducing joint and several liability at European level . 
in writing . - Thousands of European citizens continue to be victims of a system of massive urbanisation , expressed in a very large number of petitions concerning the abuse of the legitimate rights of European citizens to their property and environment . 
The problem has been caused by public procurement with insufficient control of the urbanisation procedures by local and regional authorities . 
The resolution adopted should begin to bring concrete solutions to people living in the affected areas in Spain . 
in writing . - I am pleased Parliament voted in favour of this report . 
Many Scottish people have been affected by the Spanish land grab , losing their homes which many have saved a lifetime to afford . 
The Spanish Government must do all it can to bring justice to those people affected . 
in writing . - I support this report 's aims to strengthen security and fundamental freedoms on the Internet . 
in writing . - I supported the Vălean report on EU citizens ' rights . 
The right of EU citizens and their families to move and reside across the Unions relates to the fundamental freedoms and it is essential that all Member States apply the law without discrimination . 
Speaking as a representative of Scotland I know that the EU has offered countless opportunities for Scots abroad , whilst Scotland has welcomed many newcomers who have played a valuable role in our economic and cultural lives . 
At this time of economic crisis it is essential that the benefits of free movement are recognised and that economic hardship is not used as an excuse for discrimination . 
in writing . - I congratulate my colleague Ms Buitenweg in gaining majority support for her report in this House . 
Discrimination on the basis of religion or belief , disability , age or sexual orientation has no place in European society . 
It is right that legal protection is extended beyond the labour market and this proposed Directive will be a valuable tool in the fight against intolerance . 
in writing . - I support this report which calls for further research to be carried out on electromagnetic fields emitted from devices such as radios , TVs , microwaves , mobile phones and high-voltage power lines . 
The report recommends that schools , crèches , retirement homes and hospitals should be kept away from mobile phone antennas or high-voltage power lines by a specific distance to be determined by scientific criteria . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the Schmitt report on better schools . 
The report rightly notes that the provision of school education is a Member State competence and I believe it is correct that individual nations ' education systems are given autonomy and respect . 
Nonetheless , the educational experience of children across the EU can only be enhanced by greater European cooperation and education systems across the continent must adapt to keep up with modern challenges . 
rapporteur . - Madam President , this directive responds to the growing importance of electronic commerce and of electronic money and the need for a clear legislative framework . 
Its aim is to facilitate the use of electronic money for on-line payments accounts , pre-paid mobile phone accounts , top-up travel cards and gift vouchers . 
E-money is no different from other forms of money in that it stores monetary value and provides a convenient means of exchange . 
It was all of eight years ago that a Benjamin Cohen , in his article , ` Electronic Money : New Day or False Dawn ? ' , stated that the era of electronic money will soon be upon us . 
Sadly , this prediction was both over-optimistic and premature - for Europe , at least . 
Electronic money is still far from delivering , in Europe , the full benefits which were expected when the first e-money directive was adopted in 2001 . 
Probably this was because of the high initial capital requirement and other over-cautious restrictions . 
The number of e-money institutions differs remarkably from one Member State to another . 
For example , the Czech Republic has over 40 EMIs , or Electronic Money Institutes , while France and Germany between them have a grand total of 12 . 
In fact , two German EMIs were even constrained to move to the UK jurisdiction because of major differences in regulation , even under this directive . 
In August 2007 - two years ago - outstanding electronic money was only EUR 1 billion , and that compares with EUR 600 billion of cash in circulation . 
So , clearly , e-money has a long way to go to become a serious alternative to cash . 
New and smaller operators will have an opportunity to enter the market , as the amount of initial capital needed will be reduced from EUR 1 million to EUR 350 000 . 
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs would certainly have preferred less . 
We have been rushed through the legislative process for a first-reading agreement in order to get this measure enacted before the European elections . 
I thank most warmly Ivo and Melanie from the Economic Committee staff , the Socialist and Liberal shadows , Mr Pittella and Mrs Raeva , the Commission services and the Czech Presidency , notably Tomáš Trnka and his team , for their very positive cooperation . 
None of us achieved all we would have wished , but I believe we will have made a significant step forward , and I would very much welcome Parliament 's support for this project . 
rapporteur . - Madam President , just to satisfy the prudential concerns mentioned by Mrs Berès , I would point out that we have insisted in this directive and report that e-money funds are not deposits ; credit can not be created upon them . 
We have opened the door for e-money only a bit wider . 
The basic capital requirement is reduced to EUR 350 000 ; the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs would have preferred EUR 200 000 . 
It is not ideal that we still have the prospect of such an uneven playing field in the European Union , especially when we have insisted that e-money users ' funds will be fully safeguarded and there are also other important user-friendly protections , for example in redemption , as Mrs Berès mentioned . 
Because of the level of capital required , the waiver level has also had to be set for purely national e-money operators at EUR 5 million instead of EUR 2 million . 
All in all , this is a very cautious step forward . 
Almost certainly it will have to be revisited in three or four years ' time and , by then , I hope more operators will have entered the business . 
Users and merchants will be clamouring for more choice . 
in writing . - I support this proposal on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments , with a view to closing existing loopholes and eliminating tax evasion . 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Mr President , while we sit here debating the recent uprising in Iran , do we realise that over 50 of the student leaders , the protestors who were arrested , have been taken out and hanged by the Iranian authorities , that over 200 people were killed on the streets , including Neda , who has become an international and very potent symbol of the brutality of that fascist regime against the people of Iran ? 
And , while we continue to enjoy our place as the biggest trading partner with the Iranian Government , do we seriously think that money is more important than lives ? 
Why are we not prepared to put tougher sanctions in place ? 
Why do we not , as a Parliament , scrap our Delegation for relations with Iran , which in any case in the last five years became nothing more than a compliant mouthpiece of the Iranian Embassy in Brussels and brought shame on the EU institutions ? 
Transparency is essential if we are to bring consumer confidence back to the banking sector . 
in writing . - Today 's debate on forest fires in welcomed . 
The devastation to many sites of natural beauty is a loss to us all . 
We must show solidarity with our colleagues and help the countries affected . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of Amendment 7 . 
I am pleased that services have been organised quickly to hold the vote , and I hope the funds required in Italy are made available as quickly as possible to provide speedy and effective assistance . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the Weber report on the prevention and settlement of conflicts of exercise of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings . 
Serious criminal activities have an increasingly cross-border nature and the EU has an important role to play in combating such activities . 
Clearer procedures for the exchange of information in criminal proceedings will enhance cooperation between Member States and improve individual nations ' abilities to combat crime . 
Regard must always be had for fundamental rights and , in my opinion , the Weber report improves upon the proposed framework decision . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the resolution on the G20 Summit in Pittsburgh . 
The current economic crisis is truly global in both its roots and its effects , and so coordinated international action is essential to finding solutions . 
National governments all have a role to play in these solutions and joint action at EU level will ensure that Europe can be at the forefront of driving forward global recovery . 
The Scottish Government is pushing forward a programme aimed at supporting jobs and communities , strengthening education and skills , and investing in innovation and the industries of the future . 
Together with the other countries of Europe , we will be able to overcome the challenges we currently face . 
in writing . - I abstained from the vote on Amendment 8 on a financial transaction tax . 
I am in favour of such a tax , but I believe it needs to be at the global level , rather than European level , in order to be effective . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , could I , too , thank the Commissioner for coming here tonight to further explain the powers she seeks . 
Commissioner , could I first of all thank you for responding positively to the resolution agreed with this House on 27 September . 
I welcome the moves you have taken to try and stabilise what is a very serious situation for dairy farmers . 
I also welcome the EUR 280 million that you have announced for restructuring . 
In terms of the first part of your proposal , the question we all have to ask today is : why are we being asked to approve urgency measures at this late stage , and will they assist market recovery ? 
Because clearly , as you said in your speech , the green shoots of recovery are already starting to show . 
I am not convinced that the proposed quota changes will make a great deal of difference but , as they are voluntary on Member States , this group will certainly not oppose them being granted . 
Turning to the proposal on widening the scope of Article 186 to include milk and milk products , in my experience , ministers - or in this case commissioners - usually come to parliaments asking for powers so they can take action to solve a problem . 
Tonight , we seem to be being asked to grant the powers to the Commission without first being told exactly what action they will be used to address . 
As I understand from your contribution early on , you did mention that you needed this extra power as a legal basis to pay out the EUR 280 million . 
I would be grateful if you could clarify whether that is the case . 
Is that why you require the powers ? 
Because the great concern we all have is that we may well be handing over a blank cheque to the Commission . 
Commissioner , you said you had been financially plucked of your last feather , so , if you have other ideas for action you might take , clearly there is not much financial scope to do anything at all significant . 
Our group will only grant these powers if they are time limited and they are constrained to extreme circumstances . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the resolution , and strongly support calls to prevent media monopolies operating in Europe . 
Freedom of information is a hugely important issue , and given the strength of feeling and close vote , I hope it is an issue we will return to . 
I was disappointed that after the amendments were rejected , we were unable to pass the final resolution . 
author . - Mr President , while we sit in this Chamber having grand debates , the hangmen in Iran are working overtime . 
But we follow a policy of appeasement in the EU . 
We are only bolstering the Mullahs when we continue this policy of appeasement . 
We need to take tough sanctions . 
Toughness is the only language these Mullahs understand . 
in writing . - Moves to liberalise visa requirements for citizens of the Balkan States are to be welcomed . 
As the stabilisation and association processes develop with these countries and they move from potential candidate status to full candidate status , it seems appropriate that their citizens should enjoy greater freedom of movement . 
I fully back the amendment tabled on behalf of my own group . 
This House has previously called on all EU Member States to recognise Kosovo 's independence and Serbia should implement the same measures and controls on its Kosovan border as it does on other internationally recognised borders . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the resolution on Russia . 
Russia is one of the EU 's most important partners and it is essential that the EU and Russia have a strong working relationship . 
The forthcoming summit in Stockholm will discuss a range of issues important to the EU , Russia and , indeed , the wider global community , and Parliament has today sent a united message highlighting the areas of key interest and concern . 
in writing . - I wholeheartedly support the resolution on neurodegenerative diseases and welcome the EU 's proposed coordination in this area . 
Dementia is a huge issue throughout Europe affecting millions of individuals and families . 
There are an estimated seven million people across the EU with dementia , some 70 000 in Scotland - and these figures are expected to rise in the future . 
The Commission has expressly recognised Scotland as one of a handful of countries to have already embarked upon a national dementia strategy . 
The work already undertaken in Scotland will fit nicely into the proposals of the EU and together , we will be more able to better understand and help prevent Alzheimer 's and other degenerative conditions . 
rapporteur . - Mr President , thank you firstly for your tolerance and for your presence . 
When I first stood for the European Parliament in 1984 , I remarked to one of my then colleagues , Ken Collins , a Scottish Member , that I was wondering whether I was doing the wrong thing , because Parliament did not seem to have much teeth when it came to legislative matters . 
Ken said to me that it was true that Parliament did not have a lot of teeth , but , if you asked any mother of a young baby , you would know that you can make a big impression with your gums . 
This Parliament did make a big impression with its gums in terms of using the right to be consulted on legislation . 
I am honoured to have the opportunity to present a report adjusting our Rules of Procedure to take into account the new powers we have as a result of the Lisbon Treaty . 
I am honoured , but to be honest , I am also slightly disappointed , because this report should really be called the Corbett report . 
My colleague , Richard Corbett , did all the hard work on this report before the elections . 
It also refines our role in the appointment of the European Commission , establishes a new relationship between the European Parliament and the national parliaments , and paves the way for new Members of this Parliament . 
Most of these issues have been dealt with , as I have said , without controversy . 
Let me just briefly mention where we have some disagreements between the groups , though I should say in passing that the political groups have shown excellent cooperation over this matter . 
All the major shadows and coordinators have been very supportive , but there are one or two issues that we have not been able to resolve . 
Firstly , who should chair our delegation to COSAC ? 
Should it be the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or should it be a vice-president of Parliament , as is presently the situation ? 
My own view is that it should be a vice-president ; the committee has decided that it should be the Chair . 
In the end , the plenary will decide , but I make the point that COSAC is about more than interinstitutional relations . 
It also deals with policy matters and that is why historically , we have had a vice-president chairing the delegation . 
In terms of our relationship with the national parliaments , we have had some disagreement in the committee on how much detail we should go into , and how much the rules should prescribe that relationship . 
The only point that has emerged is what happens if a committee says ` no , there is no breach of subsidiarity and the legislation should go ahead ' . 
Should there be a safety valve for Members of the European Parliament to raise the matter on the floor of this House ? 
I have put down an amendment , and others have put down similar amendments , suggesting that if one tenth of the Members of the European Parliament reckon there is an issue of subsidiarity , then that matter should be debated on the floor of the House . 
I think that is a sensible safety valve . 
My view is that we absolutely should . 
However , the crucial issue - and , again , there is consensus in the committee on this - is whether these observers should be people who would otherwise have been elected to Parliament . 
That is critical for our credibility . 
If we allow the Member States simply to appoint anyone to take the role of observer - and we do have rumours that some Member States want to appoint national parliamentarians - I think that would be entirely unacceptable . 
That is to the credit of the people who worked in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs before the summer , and I again repeat my thanks to Richard Corbett for all the efforts that he made in this regard . 
Mr Casini has been very wise , as he often is on these matters , in that there are amendments which have absolutely nothing to do with Lisbon , and it is very clear they have nothing to do with Lisbon . 
While I could have lived with some of them being voted through this Parliament , it is perhaps fairer that we have a separate full and frank discussion on these matters before we come to vote on them . 
I want to make it clear , at the same time , that nothing stops Members from bringing forward proposals , for example of the type Mr Fox talked about , which would strip the Bureau of some of its powers in terms of the implementation of the Members ' Statute . 
I do not agree with that , but nothing stops Members from bringing the issue forward in the future for debate in this House . 
I would ask you therefore in your wisdom to rule that these amendments are admissible , but that those concerning the function of the Bureau - the number of vice-chairs for committees and so on - are clearly not matters relating to Lisbon and should not be voted on this week . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the compromise package on telecommunications . 
Whilst , as is the nature of compromises , the package is not perfect , I believe that it is a step in the right direction and will bring about an improvement in consumers ' rights . 
in writing . - In line with the recommendation of the Committee on Civil Liberties , I voted against the draft decision . 
With the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon imminent , decisions in this area should be taken under the new legislative procedures . 
in writing . - I abstained on the Bullmann report . 
Whilst I do believe that the Council has a duty to listen to the views of this House , the EU 's only directly elected institution , I do not believe that VAT systems should be harmonised . 
The principle of subsidiarity dictates that taxation is a matter best left to the nations of Europe . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the Rosbach report . 
Carbon capture and storage can make a significant contribution to efforts aimed at tackling global warming and my own country , Scotland , will play an important role in developing the necessary technology . 
This amendment to the OSPAR Convention will mean that the EU and Scotland can take a lead in this area . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this report relating to recovery plan changes within the framework of the North Atlantic Fisheries Organisation . 
International fisheries organisations are essential to the management of global marine resources . 
I consider it unfortunate , however , that it is the EU that negotiates with our North Atlantic neighbours . 
Whilst the Treaty of Lisbon has now enshrined this principle , I still consider that there is scope for fisheries management to be returned to the fishing nations and maritime regions . 
If they bothered to turn up at the committees to which they are entitled to turn up , they would know that we are not voting on this today but we are going to vote on this in January . 
I will be sticking to my recommendation that you , Mr President , invite a Non-Inscrit to attend the Conference of Presidents . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the compromise package on tyre labelling . 
This Parliament deals with many issues which appear extremely technical and , at first glance , are not high on many people 's political agenda ; this is perhaps one such issue . 
However , closer examination reveals that almost a quarter of CO2 emissions come from road transport and that tyres play a significant role in determining fuel efficiency . 
This proposed legislation therefore plays an important part in wider EU efforts to tackle global warming . 
in writing . - Under the old Rule 36 of this Parliament , we were required to ` pay particular attention to respect for fundamental rights ' . 
In the new Rule 36 , we must ` fully respect ' those rights as laid down in the Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
This is a subtle change but one which I consider to be important and which binds all MEPs to upholding the rights of all citizens . 
in writing . - Next month , the eyes of the world will be on Denmark . 
Across the North Sea , in a country of similar size , the Scottish Government is making a vital contribution to climate change efforts . 
According to the official website of the Copenhagen Summit , Scotland has taken on ` world leadership on climate protection ' . 
The efforts of the Scottish Government are to be fully supported and we must hope that other nations add their weight to global efforts next month . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Madam President , I would like to thank my colleagues who have already contributed . 
The first point I would like to make is that I think the recent spike in world food prices serves as a wake-up call to all of us . 
The doubling of grain and rice prices has had a disproportionate impact on some of the poorest people in developing countries around the world . 
Indeed , in many countries , we have seen food riots and political instability as a result of the spike in food prices . 
With world population predicted to rise to over nine billion and climate change predicted to have a major impact on our ability to feed ourselves , food security is , I would argue , a major issue that we must confront and address and find solutions to . 
The European Union must do all it can to help developing countries to develop sustainable farming and food production systems that enable them to feed themselves . 
That requires finance - as the Commissioner outlined in his statement - and it requires open markets . 
Here , there is a recognition that Europe has gone a long way to assist in opening up and liberalising markets . 
But also many of the problems that developing countries face result from a failure of politics and a failure of the legal system . 
No amount of help will actually correct that problem until you have got a stable political system and a stable legal system that allows farmers to flourish and to reap the benefits of higher market prices . 
It is estimated that EU production will have to rise by over 70 % just to meet rising demand in the future . 
I would argue that European agriculture has a major role to play , not only ensuring that we are self-sufficient here , but also ensuring that we can contribute to global food security in the future . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Madam President , I would like to thank the Commissioner for her statement , where she outlined that the range of protections and measures are there to ensure that third-country imports are meeting the highest standards possible . 
I want to look in particular at the FVO report from Brazil . 
Proper traceability systems and designated holdings in Brazil are at the heart of the measures that the EU has requested be put in place to prevent any threat or risk of contaminated meat products being imported into the EU from that country . 
They are fundamental in guaranteeing to EU consumers , farmers and taxpayers that there are no risks . 
Let us not forget that foot-and-mouth disease is still a serious problem in Brazil . 
Yet the Commission 's FVO report in February highlighted a catalogue of failures : 50 % of the farms which were inspected which were designated for exports to the EU had problems . 
I do not need to remind the House of the impact a major disease outbreak can have on taxpayers , farmers and customers . 
In the last major disease outbreak in the UK which you referred to in your speech , foot and mouth erupted and we destroyed a million animals and it cost our taxpayers GBP 4 billion . 
That is the kind of risk we run if we do not get this right , so we must be vigilant . 
I am not asking for restrictions to be put on Brazil ; what I am asking from the Commissioner here tonight is an assurance that this matter is taken seriously and that the Commission makes sure that the failings identified in the report are corrected in the next report . 
We need to see a clean bill of health to reassure farmers , taxpayers and consumers that they are protected and that free and fair trade can resume between Brazil and the EU . 
This issue does merit it and , as one of the last veterans of the first battle of Brazilian beef , it is a pleasure to see so many familiar faces in the Chamber tonight . 
I hope that indicates that we are interested and serious regarding this issue . 
We support you in what you are saying about the import controls and about FMD . 
Frankly , that is not quite what this issue is about , and that is why I am so glad that those who wanted to broaden this issue out to imports from third countries have achieved that aim . 
So it troubles me to hear you accept the fact that Brazil has lower standards of traceability than we do because it might not create such a disease risk coming into the territory of the European Union . 
Our consumers expect exactly the same standards in all things coming into the European Union . 
I accept your point if you are talking about strict disease control , but we are talking about equity and fairness . 
Our consumers demand - and our farmers demand and we , frankly , demand - that we have exactly the same standards of traceability across Brazil and across all third countries . 
For an FVO report to come back that said 50 % of the inspections failed or had problems with them is just like throwing red meat to a pack of hungry wolves , as you perhaps see this evening . 
Can you assure us : when is the next FVO report , and will you actually take it seriously and ban whichever countries fail to meet our standards ? 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , this House proposed the creation of the European Arrest Warrant on 6 September 2001 . 
Our proposal would still be on a shelf gathering dust if it had not been for the events in New York five days later . 
Mr Bin Laden helped make it a reality , and it was to me that fell the honour of piloting the measure through the House . 
This House insisted at the time that it should be accompanied by minimum procedural guarantees in criminal legal proceedings . 
The Commission made its proposals in 2002 and undertook to see speedy action . 
So why is it that until recently , this has been stuck in the Council 's in-tray ? 
Why has the Commission not been waging war to see all of its proposals approved , and not have them approved separately ? 
The European Arrest Warrant has replaced extradition . 
It has substantially cut the time needed for surrender . 
It has encouraged direct contact between Member States ' judicial authorities . 
It has ruled out decisions based on political expediency to the extent that Member States surrender their own nationals . 
It has vastly enhanced the rule of law on our continent , but the European Arrest Warrant relies on mutual trust , and there are too many cases where such trust is called into question by our citizens . 
Two of my constituents are currently in detention in Hungary awaiting trial . 
Though their extradition was requested over a year ago , and though they have been there for two months , they have not yet been indicted and their trial may yet be months away . 
One has lost his job and his family 's main source of income . 
Both are deprived of the company of loved ones . 
And yet both may be innocent of the crimes of which they are charged . 
Cases like this give European judicial cooperation a bad name . 
They pour shame on the inaction of governments in Council . 
The authors of this oral question are right : they require Europe 's urgent attention . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , with permission , I did not give Mr Bin Laden as the justification ; I said he helped us to speed it up . 
It was never intended solely to cover terrorist crimes ; it was intended to cover all serious crimes . 
Those who oppose its use are those who , effectively , oppose the rule of law on our continent and the protection that the European Arrest Warrant gives to our citizens . 
in writing . - I am very pleased that Nikiforos Diamandouros has been re-elected as European Ombudsman . 
He has been a very good champion of citizens ' rights , and I am pleased he will continue in this role . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the new Framework Agreement between the Parliament and Commission . 
With the Lisbon Treaty now in force , this House has acquired increased powers and our working relationship with the Commission must adapt accordingly . 
I particularly welcome the section in the new Agreement requiring the Commission President to fully respond to the Parliament in the event of this House withdrawing its confidence in a Commissioner . 
Whilst I voted today in favour of the new Commission , I object to the all-or-nothing system whereby Parliament must approve or reject the Commission as a whole . 
Any procedure which enhances our capability to hold individual Commissioners to account is to be welcomed . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the new College of Commissioners . 
From the viewpoint of Scotland , the nation which I represent , there are significant issues and challenges for the new Commissioners to address . 
With reform of the CFP and the CAP on the horizon , Scotland 's key interests in these policies must be recognised and I call upon the Commissioners concerned to ensure that Scotland 's coastal and rural communities are allowed to flourish socially and economically . 
Scotland being a major potential source of energy production , especially in renewable sources , the Commission should prioritise projects and initiatives which will assist in developing Scotland 's massive potential as a supplier of clean green energy . 
As a member of a pro-EU Party , I hope that this Commission can recover some of the faith in the EU which has been lost by many Scots , for example , as a direct result of Scotland 's experiences of the failed Common Fisheries Policy . 
in writing . - I welcome the appointment of the new Commission , and look forward to seeing the Commission delivering on the promises made . 
I am particularly pleased at the confirmation of Cathy Ashton as High Representative , and am sure that her quiet diplomacy will be of benefit to Europe as a whole . 
in writing . - This report deals with important issues relating to fraud , including in the field of greenhouse gas emissions . 
The Commission must report on the effectiveness of the reverse charge mechanism with a view to establishing whether it would be appropriate to extend the mechanism elsewhere . 
in writing . - This regulation allows Member States to use the European Regional Development Fund in an integrated and sensible way . 
By making existing money available for marginalised communities , many of whom are in rural areas and shelters and could not benefit under previous rules , this new regulation will contribute significantly towards the Economic Recovery Plan for Europe . 
in writing . - Whilst I believe that the EU 's Member States should retain control over their own taxation systems , it is clear that there must be cooperation across the EU and indeed with third countries in order to counter tax evasion . 
I believe that the compromise agreed today will be a useful tool in combating fraud and evasion . 
It is apparent that the existing systems of mutual assistance has proved insufficient and today 's vote should bring about much-needed improvements in this area . 
in writing . - In recent weeks , we have all seen horrific footage of the situation which has hit the people of Haiti . 
As is always the case in large natural disasters , the attention span of the press and media is short and the headlines soon move on elsewhere . 
It would not be acceptable for political leaders to move on so quickly and it is correct that this parliament seeks to keep the disaster top of the agenda . 
in writing . - The devastating earthquake in Haiti last month caused catastrophic damage , and the global relief effort will need to be long-term and committed . 
I am pleased that the EU has responded swiftly with EUR 196 million so far in assistance . 
I support the resolution calling for effective and coordinated humanitarian efforts from the EU , to ensure Haiti receives long-term assistance and reconstruction . 
in writing . - Whilst many people within the EU live reasonably comfortable lives , the reality is that across the EU , and including within the very richest areas , numerous people are living in slavery . 
in writing . - The Copenhagen Summit was very much a missed opportunity in efforts to tackle climate change . 
My own country , Scotland , has adopted the most ambitious climate change legislation in the world whilst the Scottish Government 's recent collaboration with the government of the Maldives serves as a model for international agreement . 
in writing . - The current economic crisis has highlighted a number of vital areas in which reform must be made within Europe and across the wider world . 
Good governance in tax matters is very much an important element in a healthy economy and the EU has a key role to play in promoting international good governance in these matters . 
in writing . - Whilst gender equality is a fundamental right within the EU recognised in the Treaty on European Union , there remain unacceptable levels of inequality in a wide number of areas . 
It is clear that huge problems remain and so it is imperative that the EU institutions work to positively identify and seek solutions to these issues wherever they exist in the Union . 
on behalf of the S&D Group . - Mr President , I believe that this Korean free trade agreement is important for three reasons . 
Firstly , as you have indicated , it is a win-win deal for Korea and for the European Union economies . 
It is good for consumers , it is good for jobs and , as you rightly say , it has a potential to add 19 billion to our trade flows with Korea . 
Secondly though , given the debate we have just had , in the context of the current global financial crisis , it sets a very positive example . 
If two large economies like the European Union and Korea can agree a free trade agreement , it sets an impetus for other partners . 
Japan , for example , is showing much more interest in economic relations with the European Union than it was just a few years ago and partly that is due to the Korean deal . 
Suddenly , on the other side , the Koreans are finding the US is now coming back , knocking on their door , wanting to get the KORUS agreement moving again . 
Firstly , we said in my report that we needed much better access to the Korean agricultural market . 
And they are not , as one of my colleagues indicated , insignificant . 
We called for non-tariff barriers to be tackled and this will be of particular benefit to the automobile industry . 
We asked as a Parliament for improved social and environmental standards . 
Well , Korea , since the negotiations have been initialled , has signed four ILO Conventions and their trade and sustainable development forum is going to be established as a result of this agreement allowing the civil partners in Korea to ensure that greater market opening is accompanied by labour and environmental standards improvements . 
All of these things , Parliament asked for . 
It would be ludicrous and perverse for us to turn our back on them , having achieved them . 
Is this a perfect deal ? 
Well , of course it is not . 
Is it a good deal for Korea ? 
Is it a good deal , potentially , for the world economy ? 
So we should not shilly-shally on this : we should get on and sign it . 
in writing . - Despite the disappointment of Copenhagen , the EU can not allow the lack of international consensus to slow down our own efforts in effecting a sustainable energy policy . 
The Scottish Government is continuing to pioneer in the field of renewable energy and the EU has an important role , too , in driving forward the agenda . 
The effective promotion of our energy policy requires adequate information on infrastructure and I voted accordingly today . 
Our final position on the increased allowance will be contingent on the outcome of this evaluation . 
in writing . - The report contained many good and important elements and there is a consensus that the centralised , one-size-fits-all model of the CFP has been a disaster . 
A number of amendments tabled by myself were successful and thus , the report recognises relative stability , the need to incentivise conservation efforts and the success that has been national control within the 12-mile zone . 
However , the report goes on to state that historical rights should be reviewed . 
Fisheries management must be returned to the fishing nations ; those fishing nations must not lose their historical rights . 
I therefore voted against a report which invites an attack on such fundamental traditional rights of access to fish stocks . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the Hedh report . 
Scotland currently lacks a voice in EU consumer matters : we have no independent representation in the Council and consumer legislation is largely reserved to London . 
Given our separate legal institutions , it is essential that these powers are returned to the Scottish parliament so that Scotland can play a full role in the ongoing EU debate on these matters . 
in writing . - I welcome this contribution to the consumer scoreboard from Parliament . 
The consumer scoreboard is an important indicator of how effective and efficient Member States are at implementing legislation from the EU . 
I welcome the rapporteur 's calls for greater transparency and visibility of the surveillance measures and support her call for improved collective redress mechanisms in the EU . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of Mrs de Brún 's report . 
Public and animal health matters are also of vital importance and I consider that the rapporteur has done a good job in striking a balance . 
in writing . - I abstained on the Coelho report as it deals with aspects of Schengen which are not applicable in Scotland . 
in writing . - The Internal Market Scoreboard provides a useful overview of the application of Community rules in areas of vital importance to European consumers and businesses . 
Unfortunately , Scotland does not as yet feature as an independent country on the scoreboard . 
on behalf of the S&D Group . - Mr President , I thank the Commissioner for his contribution . 
Commissioner , you said at the end of your contribution that you have heard our concerns and you are responding to them . 
Well , I think , as they say , ` up to a point ' . 
I am not convinced that you have entirely grasped all our concerns about the ACTA negotiations . 
It is true that there is common ground between us in terms of the fact that IPR right holders deserve a fair return on their rights , but counterfeit goods can and do sometimes pose a threat to human health . 
So , like you , we are not against international cooperation to tackle piracy , to tackle counterfeiting and to deal with other abuses of intellectual property rights . 
But , we repeat , it has to be based on the existing acquis communautaire . 
Even though we might frown on it , nobody should be criminalised for personal use of copyright material . 
Of course , any action through ACTA has to be proportional to the aims . 
It is not a blank cheque for copyright holders . 
The problem , as other Members have said , is that we do not know the situation because of the secrecy surrounding this . 
I welcome the fact that you have given a strong commitment to get the draft negotiating text and that you will put pressure on the other parties . 
I think you have to tell the other parties , though , that this will not strengthen you as a negotiator : it will weaken you as a negotiator if you can not release the draft text , because you will not have - as was very clear tonight - the support of this House if we can not see the draft text on which you are working . 
Finally , on a positive note , I welcome your comments on generic medicine and I look forward to seeing the review of the Customs Regulation . 
deputising for the author . - Mr President , like Mr Caspary , I welcome the three preference regimes we have under the GSP - Everything But Arms , GSP and GSP + . 
It is right that the 49 poorest countries in the world should get open access to our markets for everything but their arms . 
It is right , as Mr Caspary has said , that the 176 developing countries should be given preferential access to our market . 
It is also right that 16 countries should get even better access to our market , through GSP + , in return for setting up and implementing 27 specified international conventions on human rights , co-labour standards , sustainable development and good governance . 
However , it is also right that we expect those 16 beneficiary countries to apply and respect their commitments under those conventions . 
If we allow countries to get away with not applying their commitments or respecting the laws under those conventions , then we lose the incentive that GSP + is supposed to give . 
That is not all , as we in effect punish the other GSP countries by eroding their preferences and giving preferences to 16 countries not respecting their rights . 
That is why I welcome the fact that Sri Lanka has been investigated by the Commission , which has also proposed action against Sri Lanka . 
That is also why I believe strongly that the Commission should launch an investigation into Colombia 's respect or otherwise of the 27 conventions . 
I have three questions for the Commissioner . 
Does the Commission accept that , in the future , Parliament should be given the right to call for investigations under GSP + ? 
Secondly , in the meantime , will the Commission present to Parliament the requested report on the status of the ratification and implementation of the conventions by the existing GSP + beneficiaries ? 
Finally , when does the Commission plan to transmit to Parliament the revised regulation for the next phase of GSP ? 
We were promised it by June and we would like to see it delivered by June . 
in writing . - I strongly support the findings of the Goldstone report , and am pleased that the Parliament has endorsed its recommendations . 
I hope the process of lasting peace through a two state solution will be supported by the Goldstone findings . 
in writing . - I support a tax of financial transactions , and I am very pleased that this initiative is gaining such support . 
In order to be effective , it should be a global tax , and I support measures to introduce such a charge on financial transactions . 
in writing . - Transparency of the ACTA negotiations is of vital importance , and I am glad the Parliament has called for full disclosure in such powerful numbers . 
While I am pleased to hear assurances that individuals will not be criminalised for personal use , and that the ACTA Agreement will not be used to prevent generic medicines reaching developing countries , I hope the Parliament will be able to access all documents and monitor the negotiations to ensure this is upheld . 
author . - Mr President , the European Union in general , and this Parliament in particular , has a very proud record - an honourable tradition - of opposing the death penalty . 
Therefore we can do nothing other than regret the decision of the Republic of Korea 's Constitutional Court that the death penalty is not a violation of that country 's Constitution . 
However , I believe we have to keep the issue in proportion . 
The justices ruled by a narrow margin of five votes to four . 
The last time they voted it was seven votes to two . 
They did not urge or condone the use of the death penalty but called for a political decision for the Korean Parliament to decide on the future abolition of the death penalty in that country . 
We also have to note that South Korea is de facto an abolitionist country . 
No executions have been carried out since February 1998 and , in 2007 , Amnesty International categorised South Korea as a country that has virtually abolished capital punishment . 
However , the seriousness of this issue comes back to the fore when we realise that the floor leader of the Grand National Party in Korea said just recently that this de facto moratorium on capital punishment should be ended and a swift execution should take place of certain prisoners . 
I hope this unfortunate opportunistic voice in Korea will be ignored and that South Korea will indeed move away from being a de facto moratorium country by changing its law and becoming a de jure moratorium country . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Madam President , can I , too , add my congratulations to Mr Scottà on his report . 
There is much in it that is to be commended . 
Unfortunately , I and my ALDE colleagues can not support it as it currently stands without seeing one or two changes made to it . 
We can not support paragraph 19 , the so-called ` wonky fruit ' paragraph . 
I believe it is nonsense for bureaucrats in Brussels to be telling consumers that they can buy only straight bananas or straight cucumbers . 
It is surely a decision for consumers . 
Marianne Fischer-Boel , the previous Commissioner , did decide to abolish the standards and I would hope that we would continue to support that decision . 
I would also like to see some changes in paragraph 16 . 
I understand the call for an EU logo but , unless it means something to consumers and adds value for farmers , in my view , it is a pointless exercise . 
It is not worth pursuing it and I see no evidence to suggest that European consumers are looking for an EU logo . 
Finally , in paragraph 62 , there is some criticism here of private certification systems which , in Scotland , have been very successful . 
It seems to me a good thing for farmers on a voluntary basis to add value to their produce through quality assurance schemes , and we should be supporting them , not discouraging them . 
I hope we can see some changes to this report in the votes tomorrow , and if so , we will be able to support it with the changes voted through tomorrow . 
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group . - Madam President , I would echo many of the comments of my Scottish colleague - albeit not Group colleague - George Lyon . 
There is much in this report to admire and a couple of things where I think we could do a little better . 
We have brought forward a number of points and I will focus on two of them only . 
I and others believe that our consumers want to know where their food comes from . 
We believe that the provision of that information should be compulsory , so Amendment 4 , on precisely that point , replaces some rather weak wording with a much stronger requirement that , where we can actually have information on ` place of farming ' labelling , it should be compulsory , because that is what our consumers want to see . 
I would also pick up on Amendment 3 - as my colleague did - which deletes the attempt to reintroduce cumbersome and unworkable rules on the direct sale of fruit and vegetables to the consumer . 
We agreed only last year to repeal those rules and , while the consumers have not noticed much of a difference , our producers have noticed and still notice . 
Any attempt to bring those rules back would essentially be another stick for the processors , the multiples and the supermarkets to beat the producers with , and the consumers would not benefit directly . 
So there is much in this report to like . 
I would echo Mr Lyon 's comments on the EU logo . 
I think that is more to do with the ambitions of this building rather than what our consumers want . 
If it does not resonate with the consumers , we should not do it and we should replace it with a compulsory origin labelling scheme , which is what our consumers want . 
The amendments are constructive ; I hope they will be successful and that colleagues will support them tomorrow . 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Madam President , one of the most contentious items in this debate has been country of origin labelling . 
I firmly believe that consumers have a right to know the origin of the food they purchase and , particularly in the case of meat , if it has been produced to high welfare standards and has not been transported over great distances prior to slaughter . 
But the sourcing of raw materials in processed food is irreversibly complex , as ingredients are chosen based on price , quality and availability and countries of origin in a single meat processing plant may alter day by day , and even hour by hour . 
The constant adaptation of labels would carry higher costs and will inevitably increase packaging waste . 
These additional costs would be passed on to the consumer . 
That is why I believe that the feasibility of mandatory labelling rules must first be subject to an impact assessment , and I am glad that Commissioner Dalli said that he supports that . 
But while this debate focuses on raw materials or ingredients of foodstuffs , it does not cover the origin of the final product . 
This is particularly important for specific products like whisky . 
It is still possible for low-quality whiskies from countries like India , China and Japan to pass themselves off as the genuine article by carrying pictures , images or names on their labels which are reminiscent of the traditional whisky-producing countries in the EU in order to increase their competitive advantage and mislead the consumer . 
We must guard against this , and I therefore urge you to support Amendment 254 . 
in writing . - The Tremopoulos report takes as its starting point the idea that transparency is a prerequisite to achieving the objectives of cohesion policy and I fully support calls for greater transparency in regional policy . 
The report also calls for Member States to fully involve regional and local authorities in implementing policies and I am sure that when Scotland is independent , the Scottish Government will fully involve all Scotland 's regions in these matters . 
in writing . - I voted against Amendment 110 , which envisages this House having cooperation with Member State parliaments but not with sub-Member State parliaments . 
The amendment also ignores the political realities of other Member States : it is ridiculous that this House can not fully cooperate with the Scottish Parliament on matters such as fisheries , where Scotland holds the biggest UK stake . 
in writing . - As technology becomes ever more advanced , it is important that the EU and other policy makers keep abreast of developments . 
This report covers a number of important topics such as privacy and health issues and I fully support the rapporteur 's call for the EU to be proactive in this sphere . 
in writing . - This report recognises the importance of the Internet in promoting cultural diversity and encouraging democratic citizenship . 
For democratic values to be promoted , however , it is vital that governments refrain from imposing censorship and I therefore welcome the provisions of paragraph 13 . 
in writing . - The Winkler report deals with a number of important issues , including ecological innovation and green enterprise . 
In view of the challenges facing our planet , it is clear that innovation in these fields is of vital importance . 
My own country , Scotland , is at the forefront of many aspects of ecological innovation , particularly in the area of renewable energy . 
The Scottish Government has instituted a # 10 million Saltire Prize aimed at boosting innovation in tide and wave energy and this fits nicely into wider EU efforts to have a suitable policy in a changing world . 
in writing . - The Cashman report makes important calls for the EU and its Member States to implement a number of policies in the field of international development and I wholeheartedly endorse these calls . 
It should also be added that action can be taken other than at the EU or Member State level . 
Scotland , for example has a distinctive contribution to make in its work with developing countries and the Scottish Government has also published an International Development Policy aimed at contributing towards Millennium Development Goals . 
on behalf of the S&D Group . - Mr President , I would like to thank the rapporteur and all the shadows for their cooperation . 
I believe that the compromises reached are accepted by the S&D Group as they are fair and we believe will lead to greater investor protection , in particular , for small retail investors . 
I think , as the Commissioner said , it is in the spirit of the original directive . 
If we look at the summary and the key information document - Dr Klinz has spoken about that and the need to have clarity - I think we have reached a wording which will ensure clarity , whilst being clear that civil liability remains with the base prospectus . 
On threshold : I would say it was more a tweaking exercise than dramatic change , but the compromises reached were fair and balanced and the S&D Group supports these . 
I think it is a welcome step to be clear about the definition of a qualified investor as is the effect of supervision of third country trading . 
In line with better regulation , the decision that no prospectus will be required for employee share schemes would appear to be sensible . 
After all , if employees are not willing to invest in their own firm , maybe the management should take heed . 
I will certainly be using the prospectus directive decision as a benchmark for the work I will be doing as the rapporteur on construction products , while the benchmark that is being used by the Council is the Pets Directive rather than the Prospectus Directive . 
So all in all , Mr President and rapporteur , the S&D Group supports the compromise reached and we look forward to supporting the first reading deal in tomorrow 's vote . 
rapporteur . - Mr President , could I begin by offering my commiserations to my German colleagues and congratulations to my Spanish colleagues after last night 's excellent match . 
I would like to set out what I believe are the two fundamental questions that we need to answer in terms of CAP reform . 
What is the CAP for ? 
Why is it still relevant in the 21st century ? 
In these times of economic crisis , debt-ridden public finances and austerity budgets , it is vital that the CAP provides answers to these questions if we want taxpayers to continue providing much needed support for our farmers in the future . 
One of the fundamental challenges society faces is how to feed a growing world demand for food , estimated by the FAO to double by the year 2050 . 
The big challenge of course is how to meet that doubling of food demand against a background of less land , less water and less energy due to the impact of climate change . 
How do we square that circle and avoid the perfect storm predicted by UK 's Chief Scientific Advisor , Sir John Beddington , when he said in 2009 ` we head into a perfect storm in 2030 , because all of these things are operating on the same time frame ' ? 
If we do not address this we can expect major destabilisation , an increase in rioting and potentially significant problems with international migration as people move out to avoid food and water shortages . 
That is the scale of the challenge . 
I believe that tackling climate change and making our agriculture production more sustainable are objectives which must be at the heart of the reform going forward . 
They are vital steps if we are to continue to have guaranteed food security for our European citizens and still make a contribution to meeting growing global demand for food . 
Reform should also encourage green growth through the development of small-scale renewables such as wind , biomass , biogas and second generation biofuels . 
That would help to create jobs and provide real opportunities for farmers to diversify and earn extra income . 
We also must respond to the call for greater environmental protection by ensuring farmers have an opportunity to participate in agri-environmental schemes with a goal of a majority of farmland being covered by such a scheme over the period of the next reform . 
By using the carrot , rather than the stick - that is a very important principle , the carrot encouragement rather than the big stick of rules and regulations - you will get buy-in from farmers to this agenda . 
Fairness also has to be a key driver of the reform : fair to old Member States as well as new Member States in the distribution of direct payment envelopes across the EU ; a fair distribution among farmers and Member States by bringing historic payments to an end by 2020 . 
It can not be right and justified to continue making payments based on how you farmed some 10 years ago . 
We also need a fair deal for farmers in the food chain to be able to take on the power of the multiples . 
So , fairness , and the principle of fairness , must be at the heart of the reform going forward . 
We also have to address the issue of market volatility , but on this I would urge some caution . 
Yes , we still need intervention and private aids to storage . 
Yes , we need to examine other tools such as risk insurance and future markets . 
Yes , we need our special reserve budget line to fund action in terms of crisis . 
But we should reject any thought of a return to the wide-scale management of the markets we saw in the past . 
That has already been tried and it has failed . 
I would suggest that we do not wish to go down that road again . 
In conclusion , I am confident that this House will back our reforms , modernising the CAP , setting it on a new course to deliver on the new challenges of the 21st century . 
By backing this report the Parliament will shape the debate , set the agenda , and I would invite the Commissioner to use our ideas to inform his proposals on CAP reform when he publishes them in November this year . 
rapporteur . - Mr President , could I first of all just touch on some of the key themes that colleagues have raised during this debate . 
A new strategic importance for food production and the CAP : absolutely . 
Two pillars : absolutely , I agree with that . 
Food production at the heart of the CAP : yes , that is absolutely what the CAP is about . 
The rest are all add-ons to ensure that we have a profitable farming sector to be able to deliver the environmental benefits , to tackle climate change and all the other things we set out in the report . 
A strong budget : yes , absolutely ; fair to old and new Member States : so many Members raised that as an issue , and it is an issue we need to address . 
It needs to be objective and transparent as to how money is allocated between Member States . 
They need to meet the challenges of the Europe 2020 strategy . 
It is absolutely essential that farming and the CAP are seen as part of the solution to meeting these objectives , and not part of the problem . 
I would like to pay tribute to Michel Dantin , Mr Häusling , Mr Olejniczak and Jim Nicholson , my shadow rapporteurs . 
We had tremendous cooperation in bringing together what I believe is a very strong report that sets out a clear vision of where this Parliament wants to see the CAP head after 2013 . 
I would say that it puts this Parliament in a very powerful position when it comes to dealing and negotiating with the Commission and with the Farm Council . 
I would say to you , Commissioner , come alongside us and we can make sure that we deliver that vision together . 
in writing . - The serious human rights violations , including systematic and mass rapes , which have taken place in the Democratic Republic of Congo , are truly shocking . 
I do not consider that capital punishment has any place in the 21st century and support today 's call for a moratorium on executions . 
in writing . - The abolition of the death penalty worldwide is a priority of this Parliament and a particular priority of the Socialists and Democrats Group . 
This is a fundamental value of our Union which we must defend publicly and often wherever possible . 
in writing . - This is a great achievement for the Parliament and a positive framework for relations between Parliament and the Commission . 
I particularly welcome the acknowledgement of Council and Parliament 's ` equal footing ' and the implications that has for Parliament 's access to confidential documents , its right to be informed of Commission meetings with national experts and its participation in international conferences . 
I am also pleased that Parliament will have a strong role in legislative programming and will have frequent opportunities to debate and question these issues with the Commission in plenary and committee . 
I also voted against increases in budget lines relating to expenses , travel and administrative costs . 
However , I welcome the positive elements of the Parliament 's first reading , including funding for economic development in our regions , support for crucial research and development and increased overseas aid in line with the UK 's target to increase development assistance . 
I believe the EU budget is needed to provide long-term stability against the severe austerity measures which are being introduced by national governments in Europe . 
While national governments implement drastic cuts , in some cases , with a short-term vision , the EU budget can provide stability and long-term planning to help - through funds such as the structural funds and cohesion funds - create jobs , provide job training and boost European economies through the recovery , particularly by providing structural funds to deprived areas hit the hardest . 
Decent maternity leave is part of a wider issue of female participation in the labour market and tackling the financial implications of an ageing society . 
The EU goal is for 75 % labour participation by 2020 , and a crucial element of this will be giving all mothers the ability to take maternity leave which they can afford and then return to work . 
In an ageing society , where the demand for social care is increasing and the number of people providing the care is decreasing , more realistic leave such as maternity leave is needed . 
Women should not feel that having children is incompatible with their work - our policies need to enable care for younger and older persons . 
The implementation of this will not come into force for at least 5 years . 
Furthermore , with an increase of just 1.04 % of women 's participation in the labour market , the additional costs of extending maternity leave would be covered . 
on behalf of the S&D Group . - Madam President , I understand what Mr Melo is saying but I can not agree with it . 
I welcome the Commission 's proposal to suspend import duties on key Pakistan imports into the European Union . 
Firstly , the common ground between us is that Pakistan , which has not had an easy history since its birth as a nation , is going through its worst possible period . 
It is in the frontline of the war against terrorism , costing it so far , it is reckoned , USD 40 billion . 
We are all very well aware of the floods , the combined impact of which is worse than the Asian tsunami of 2004 and the Haitian floods of earlier this year . 
That is a significant blow to any country . 
What I welcome about the Commission proposal is that we give Pakistan the opportunity to trade its way out of some of its difficulties . 
It is an intelligent proposal . 
Firstly , as the Commissioner has said , the 75 tariff lines that would help boost Pakistan 's trade by an estimated EUR 100 million a year do little harm to EU investment . 
This is a real test of Europe 's generosity and I hope that we , in this Parliament , will be prepared to meet it . 
in writing . - I am pleased that there has been a conclusion to AIFM and that the issue of investment companies was taken into account and there will be greater consideration when legislative proposals are put forward . 
in writing . - I welcome this report agreeing to release EU funds to assist the victims of flooding in Ireland . 
Ireland applied for assistance from the European Solidarity Fund following heavy rain which led to severe flooding in November 2009 . 
The flooding caused damage to the agricultural sector , residential properties , businesses and road networks and infrastructures . 
After evaluation of the application , the Commission has proposed to mobilise the EU Solidarity Fund for a total amount of EUR 13 022 500 . 
It is worth noting that this is the first agreed proposal to mobilise funds in 2010 and the amount proposed will leave at least 98 % of the European Solidarity Fund available for allocation in the rest of 2010 . 
in writing . - I welcome this report , which backs a Commission proposal to mobilise EUR 2 890 027 from the European Globalisation Fund in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the economic crisis . 
This application concerns 821 redundancies in 70 enterprises ( printing and reproduction of recorded media ) over a nine month period . 
The European Globalisation Fund was created to help mitigate such unfortunate events . 
in writing . - I support this measure of European solidarity with the 129 workers in 9 enterprises ( printing and reproduction ) who are facing redundancy . 
The EUR 549 946 will offer some assistance to them in being reintegrated into the labour market . 
in writing . - I welcome the report , which backs plans to release EUR 2 013 619 to help workers in Overijssel made redundant due to the downturn in the printing industry . 
This support from the European Globalisation Fund should help reintegrate the workers into the labour market and I am pleased to see European solidarity in operation . 
in writing . - I am pleased that EUR 2 266 625 has been made available through the European Globalisation Fund in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in the printing industry due to the global economic crisis . 
This application concerns 720 redundancies in 79 enterprises in the Noord Holland and Utrecht Division of the Netherlands . 
in writing . - I welcome this report and the support the European Globalisation Fund is giving to workers made redundant . 
This proposal is for EUR 2 326 459 to assist 598 workers , from 8 enterprises in the printing and reproduction media , who are losing their jobs because of the economic crisis . 
This is an important example of European solidarity . 
Currently , as an exception to State aid rules , the German authorities may grant State aid under the German Alcohol Monopoly for products marketed as alcohol of agricultural origin . 
The current derogation ends on 31 December 2010 and the draft regulation extends the application of the derogation and proposes that the production/sales monopoly shall gradually decrease so that the monopoly will finally cease to exist as from 1 January 2018 . 
I welcome this phasing out . 
in writing . - The WTO duty-free rules for pharmaceutical ingredients are universally supported by the pharmaceutical industry . 
This is an industry which is important to Scotland , employing some 5 000 people nationwide . 
The EU as a whole is a key producer and user of pharmaceutical products and I was happy to support this report . 
I voted for it . 
in writing . - I voted for this report , which concerns the reconsultation of Parliament on previous Council decisions concerning the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the European Union and Ukraine . 
At a summit in Ukraine in November 2008 , both parties confirmed their interest in renewal of the agreement for a further five years and I welcome this . 
in writing . - The Commission negotiated on behalf of the Union an agreement with the government of the Faroes on scientific and technological cooperation in June 2010 . 
I voted for this report which approves the proposal . 
in writing . - The Commission has negotiated an agreement on cooperation in science and technology with Japan , signed on 30 November 2009 . 
I welcome this report , which approves the agreement , but I believe that the EU must work to intensify its relationship with Japan . 
in writing . - I voted for this proposal on a Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the EU and the Solomon Islands , but with serious reservations . 
EU development cooperation policy and the common fisheries policy have to be brought into a coherent , complementary and coordinated relationship , so that together they can help to reduce poverty in countries which have untapped fishery resources that they are seeking to exploit sustainably , while endeavouring to develop their local communities 
in writing . - I voted for this report , which examines a Commission proposal to extend by 5 years to 31 December 2015 the requirement for EU countries to have a minimum standard VAT rate of 15 % . 
This is desirable in normal times , but in the present economic crisis , it is even more necessary . 
Tax competition that drove down VAT rates would be ruinous for countries trying to maintain an acceptable level of public services . 
My group ( the S&D Group ) used the report to push for our core macro-economic policies , including : coordination of macro-economic policies by the Member States ; a permanent crisis-management framework ; a strengthened Growth and Stability Pact ; the possibility of creating a European credit rating agency ; credit for SMEs ; and flexible exit from government support following the crisis . 
in writing . - I welcome some aspects of this report dealing with civilian-military cooperation and the development of civilian-military capabilities . 
I particularly welcome cooperation on humanitarian crises and natural disasters . 
in writing . - The anchovy fishery in the Bay of Biscay has been closed since 2005 due to the poor state of that stock . 
This report details the objectives of a plan to maintain the biomass of the stock of anchovy in the Bay of Biscay at a level that allows its sustainable exploitation in accordance with maximum sustainable yield , on the basis of scientific advice , and while ensuring as much stability and profitability for the fishing sector as is practicable . 
The plan is similar to other long-term plans for pelagic fisheries ( such as that recently agreed for the West of Scotland stock of herring ) in that it provides a harvest control rule for exploitation at high long-term yields whilst protecting against the risk of stock collapse . 
in writing . - Atlantic horse mackerel has grown in importance in my own constituency and last year , some GBP 2 million worth of the fish was landed into Scottish ports by foreign boats alone . 
This figure shows that it is of importance to a number of nations and it is important that the stock is properly managed . 
I fully agree with Mr Gallagher that the western stock should be dealt with as a single stock , and I believe that the fishing nations involved should have the right to cooperate in managing this important resource . 
The proposal aims at ensuring an exploitation of living aquatic resources that provides sustainable economic , environmental and social conditions . 
in writing . - I voted for this report , which backs a proposal designed to simplify administration but does not make substantive changes to the restrictions on fishing for flounder and turbot in the Baltic Sea . 
in writing . - Whilst aquaculture is an important source of both jobs and food , it is important that the wider environment is protected from potential threats . 
The existing legislation strives to do this and today 's proposal will not undermine those efforts . 
Accordingly , I supported this report . 
in writing . - The Ferreira report deals with the amendment of Council Regulation No 708/2007 , which established a framework governing aquaculture practices in relation to alien and locally absent species . 
This framework is now under revision after the completion of the so-called IMPASSE project , whose aim was to develop guidelines for environmentally sound practices for introductions and translocations in aquaculture . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this report on State aid to facilitate the closure of uncompetitive coal mines . 
Coal has been exempted from State aid rules for a total of 35 years . 
The Commission has proposed an end to this exemption , which would allow State aid only to coal mines that are slated for closure by 2014 . 
Any coal mine that does not close by that date must pay back State aid and all countries giving State aid must provide a climate change mitigation plan . 
Germany plans to close uncompetitive mines by 2018 and the rapporteur has proposed an amendment to extend the proposal to 2018 . 
It seemed to me reasonable to support his proposal . 
in writing . - I voted for this report on the work of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly in 2009 . 
The strengthening of parliamentary oversight is vital to ensure that EU development funds are put to best use and contribute effectively to achieving the Millennium Development Goals . 
The assembly has played , and continues to play , a key role in monitoring the negotiations on Economic Partnership Agreements ( EPAs ) , allowing MEPs to hear first hand the concerns of the ACP parliamentarians and thus contributing to greater European Parliament oversight of the Commission 's negotiations and implementation of EPAs . 
in writing . - I welcome the adoption of this report on the Stockholm Programme , which stresses the need to ensure mutual recognition of official documents issued by national administrations . 
This will include same-sex unions , meaning that partners in same-sex unions can act as next of kin in case of accidents abroad and , where appropriate , have equal rights to tax benefits while living or working in another Member State . 
author . - Madam President , Commissioner , it is good to see you here with us to tonight . 
Clearly , simplification and stripping out the bureaucracy from the CAP is a key objective of the next reform , because certainly back in Scotland , many farmers are frustrated and angry about the bureaucracy and the disproportionate nature of the penalty system . 
Public money has to be spent wisely and properly audited , and we do not dispute that whatsoever , but there is a lack of proportionality in the current penalty system both at Member State level and at farmer level as well . 
That is something that needs to be addressed in the reform . 
In Scotland , farmers are currently being punished for small mistakes with very , very large fines in some instances . 
Since May , the inspections have been ramped up and swingeing penalties are being handed out . 
The Scottish Government , I am afraid , blame you , Commissioner , for that particular measure - for the ramping up of the inspections and the penalty systems . 
Another explanation , however , might be that the European Commission auditors were due to come and inspect Scotland both in October and last week in November . 
It may well be that the Scottish Government were panicking slightly and that the huge fines and draconian penalties that have been put in place in the last three or four months are the response to worries that all might not be well when the auditors arrived in Scotland and carried out their inspection . 
They have also looked across the water to our colleagues in Northern Ireland - I am sure my colleague , Jim Nicholson , might say one or two words about that - and looked at the fate of the government there which is facing a huge fine for the misinterpretation of eligible lands . 
That may well lie behind the measures taken in Scotland . 
Commissioner , in your wind-up speech , can you clarify if it is indeed you that is behind and is responsible for the new draconian regime in Scotland , and can you confirm when we will know the outcome of the auditors ' inspections that have taken place in October and November of this year ? 
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group . - Madam President , on behalf of the Green/EFA Group , I congratulate the Commissioner for coming here this evening and I congratulate colleagues , and Mr Ashworth in particular , for the original resolution which has spurred tonight 's discussion . 
Commissioner , I would refer you in particular to paragraphs 52 and 53 of the original resolution on transparency of penalties . 
I think that domestic mischief-making aside , we do have a difficulty across Scotland , and across the EU as a whole , in how our farmers perceive the transparency of enforcement , particularly of cross-compliance . 
I think that going forward , we need a far greater degree of clarity in terms of what is required and expected of farmers and what the consequences of non-compliance are . 
Going forward as well , we also need to see a greater degree of understanding , a greater degree of flexibility . 
Much as I appreciate that you have to deal with the regulations as they are written , we are here to rewrite the regulations - and that is what we are looking forward to doing . 
There is a world of difference between accident and fraud and presently , as things are implied , farmers are treated more or less the same way in either case , when there is a world of difference in the real world as to how that works . 
On paragraph 66 , in particular , going forward , I would be very grateful for an indication from you , Commissioner , of how you view the call from us for a three-year moratorium on EID - electronic identification of sheep - cross-compliance penalties . 
We in Scotland are trying to make the technology work , but it is very far from perfect and it would just rub an awful lot of salt into an existing wound to see a non-proportionate approach taken in the cross-compliance of the EID regulations . 
We are trying to make it work and we have heard you will flexible . 
I would be grateful for a reassurance tonight that that will be the case . 
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group . - Madam President , I will be brief , although I do think Mrs Lulling 's idea of cross-pollinating speaking time across the groups is certainly one to be further considered . 
I will echo comments about the beekeeping sector , but I would remind colleagues that the wild bumble bee population across Europe is also in a similar - and very grave - situation . 
They are just as important for biodiversity and the pollination benefits that we have heard of - very correctly - about the honey bee sector . 
I would pay tribute to the work of the Bumblebee Conservation Trust in Scotland , covering the bumble bee population across the UK . 
Commissioner , I would pick up on question 4 - an excellent question - suggesting that the Commission bring bee diseases into the veterinary policy . 
This has been a long-standing call of this Parliament , and it strikes me that this is not just about doling out money but about sharing best practice and knowledge across the Union . 
A lot of scientists in a lot of places are working on this , and the Commission could play a very powerful role in pooling that information and working out how much we know about this connected and very serious problem . 
in writing . - I voted for this proposal to transfer EUR 13 022 500 from the ESF to a budget line to give support to Ireland following the severe flooding it suffered in November 2009 . 
in writing . - I supported Mr Watson 's recommendation and welcome the continuing cooperation between the EU and Moldova . 
in writing . - I voted for this report on the Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the EC and Moldova . 
Although I have serious concerns about human rights in Moldova , I was encouraged by recent Amnesty International comments , in particular with regard to Moldova 's October ratification of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court , which is a very positive step . 
in writing . - I voted for this report , which is part of a package which will amend the current 2001 directive on medicinal products for human use . 
It specifically focuses on the provision of information to the public on prescription-only medicines . 
The stated aims of the directive are to allow for better access to information for patients and to clarify the rules , which are currently interpreted differently across the EU , leading to health inequalities . 
It also deals with information on the Internet , which is not covered at present and is a particularly difficult topic , as it is so hard to regulate . 
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs ( ECON ) has done a good job in amending this proposal and I was able to support this report . 
in writing . - The compromise negotiated by my colleague Jill Evans marks progress in this area of law . 
The legal certainty it provides will lead to improvements in environmental protection and I accordingly voted in favour of the report . 
in writing . - I voted for this report on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment . 
The current Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive restricts the use of six hazardous materials in the manufacturing of certain electronic and electrical equipment . 
It is intended to avoid toxic waste once this equipment is thrown away , to ensure that Europe 's unwanted mobile phones , computers and fridges do not damage the environment or human health by the seepage of chemicals in landfills or by giving off toxic fumes at incineration . 
The directive is being simplified . 
in writing . - I am disappointed that the resolution supported by my own group today was not adopted . 
The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement ( ACTA ) has the potential to have an extremely negative effect on civil liberties and today 's vote does nothing to diminish those fears . 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution on the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement ( ACTA ) . 
The right place to carry out this assessment is in the Trade Committee when it considers whether or not to give Parliamentary assent to ACTA . 
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs . - Mr President , should Europe 's trade policy simply be about obtaining maximum economic advantage , or should it be used to underpin and promote our wider goals : sustainable environment policy , fight against climate change , our social model , the promotion of human rights and democratic values ? 
The three speakers before me - the three rapporteurs - have all confirmed that the answer to that should be in the affirmative and , I am pleased to say , so has the Commissioner . 
The Subcommittee on Human Rights of this Parliament has serious doubts about our effectiveness so far . 
In the case of future trade agreements , we would like to ensure that , before any agreement is initialled , an FTA is subject to a human rights impact assessment to make sure that there are not only economic benefits from the agreement , but human rights gains from any such agreement . 
We believe that the system for suspending free trade agreements for abuse of human rights must be made more transparent and accessible , and I acknowledge the fact that Mr De Gucht in the Korea FTA has started to go down that route . 
We believe that in relation to GSP + , beneficiaries must be subjected to consistent and fairer benchmarking to make sure that their application of environmental , social and human standards remains at a high level and consistent . 
Mrs Saïfi , Mr Désir and Mr Jadot have all made it very clear that trade must not be viewed as an end in itself but must be part of a wider global strategy to promote a fairer , safer and healthier planet . 
in writing . - I voted for the budget resolution but abstained on Amendment 1b , which deals with new own resources . 
I certainly believe the EU should be looking for new sources of finance but do not believe this should done by seeking advance commitments from the Council . 
We should have an open discussion about all the options . 
in writing . - I warmly welcome this report , which makes clear that EU trade policy must be about more than trying to achieve maximum economic advantage . 
EU trade agreements must include strong human rights , social and environmental standards . 
in writing . - I voted for this report , which reviews and supports the Ombudsman 's activities in 2009 . 
The Ombudsman provides an important link with the citizens and his work helps build trust in the EU institutions and makes them more accessible . 
I support demands that the Commission give an undertaking to Parliament that it will fulfil its duty of sincere cooperation with the European Ombudsman in future . 
It focuses its analysis on the report from the Commission entitled ` EU Pilot Evaluation Report ' , in which the Commission proposes an evaluation of the performance of the ` EU Pilot ' project after its 22 months of operation . 
The Committee also suggests calling on the Commission to propose a ` procedural code ' on the infringement procedure under the new legal basis of Article 298 TFEU , in order to enforce citizens ' rights and transparency . 
in writing . - I welcome this resolution , which reaffirms Parliament 's commitment to the dual broadcasting system , in which private and public service media play their respective roles , independent of political and economic pressure , and calls for access to broadcasting of the highest level to be ensured irrespective of consumers ' and users ' ability to pay . 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution which calls for the allocation of specific and significant financial , human and organisational resources regarding the participation of women and gender mainstreaming in the field of foreign and security policy ; calls for more women to be deployed in police , military and justice and rule-of-law missions and in peacekeeping operations , as well as in diplomatic mission and democracy building efforts ; calls on EU Members States to actively promote women participation in their bilateral and multilateral relations with states and organisations outside the EU ; 
in writing . - In 2010 , the European Year of Biodiversity , the beekeeping sector throughout the world is gravely threatened , registering losses 100 to 1 000 times worse than normal . 
This sector plays a strategic role in society , providing a public service of environmental value , and beekeeping is a valuable example of a ` green occupation ' ( improving and preserving biodiversity and the ecological balance and conserving plant life ) and a model of sustainable production in a rural environment . 
I therefore welcome this resolution that makes proposals to improve the situation of the beekeeping sector . 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution , which sets out Parliament 's position in advance of the Cancún climate change conference . 
It emphasises that substantive steps need to be agreed in Cancún to pave the way for the conclusion of a comprehensive international post-2012 agreement in South Africa in 2011 , which should be in line with the latest developments in science and consistent with at least achieving the 2 ºC objective , without prejudice to moving to a 1.5 ºC temperature increase limit in order to safeguard the survival of all nations , peoples and ecosystems . 
It calls on the European Union once again to take a leading role in the climate negotiations and to actively contribute to a more constructive and transparent climate conference in Cancún . 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution on the unfortunate situation in Western Sahara . 
I am shocked by the violent incidents which took place in the Camp of Gdaim Izyk and in the town of Laâyoune , as well as by the use of force on the very same day on which the third cycle of informal talks on the status of Western Sahara opened in New York . 
I am also astonished that European parliamentarians and journalists were refused access to Western Sahara and call on the Moroccan authorities to allow the press and non-governmental organisations access to the region . 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution on Ukraine . 
I welcome the efforts made by the current governing coalition to re-establish political stability in Ukraine , which is an essential condition for the consolidation of democracy in the country . 
A lasting political stability can only be ensured through constitutional changes that establish a clear separation of powers , as well as a proper system of checks and balances between and within the executive , legislative and judicial branches of power . 
in writing . - I welcome this report , which sets out how the EU 's trade policy might contribute to tackling climate change . 
Mr Jadot wants the EU to assume international leadership on this matter and examine the possibility of a financial transaction tax , reform of the WTO ( particularly its anti-dumping rules ) , prevent the European Investment Bank from granting loans to projects that have a negative impact on the climate and end agricultural export subsidies - all of which I welcome . 
in writing . - I welcome my colleague Harlem Desir 's report on corporate social responsibility . 
The resolution stresses the importance of listening to and considering as much as possible in the decision-making process the views of the stakeholders in order to achieve a realistic and balanced regulatory framework . 
on behalf of the S&D Group . - Madam President , I am delighted at the level of European Union unity that has been shown on the matter of Burma . 
I have read the Council statement , Baroness Ashton 's statement and indeed our own President 's statement . 
No one has been fooled by these deeply flawed elections in Burma ; everyone has welcomed the release of Aung San Suu Kyi from house arrest ; but everyone has also condemned the lack of other freedoms that is still imposed . 
However , Madam President , if we play our cards right , these elections could - and it is a big ` could ' - be a new start in Burma . 
If , as other colleagues have said , we can now persuade the junta to release all political prisoners , if we can persuade the junta to allow Aung San Suu Kyi complete freedom , both in terms of movement and in terms of political public statements , and , finally , if the new Burmese parliament and government start to improve human and fundamental rights in the country , and to improve the social and economic conditions of the people of Burma , then perhaps , in a few years time , there will be grounds for our institutions to start negotiating and engaging with the Burmese regime and to see a better future for that country . 
in writing . - I voted for this report which approves the transfer of 66 million euro from the European offshore wind grid system to the EU Solidarity Fund in order to help the victims of flooding in Portugal and storms in France . 
in writing . - I welcome the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Fund to help the 2 554 workers made redundant in the Mura , European Fashion Design , enterprise in Slovenia . 
I hope the EUR 2.2 million will help the workers and the region recover quickly from the structural changes they are facing . 
in writing . - The European Globalisation Fund was created in order to provide assistance for workers suffering the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns . 
The 1 181 redundancies at four production sites of the enterprise Druckmaschinen AG in Baden Württemberg ( manufacturing of printing machinery sector ) fall exactly into this category and I therefore supported the mobilisation of EUR 8 308 555 to assist them . 
in writing . - The Commission has proposed granting EUR 633 077 from the European Globalisation Fund to help 1 104 workers made redundant in Poland in two enterprises involved in the manufacture of motor vehicles , trailers and semi-trailers . 
I voted for this proposal . 
in writing . - The extent of the global downturn is revealed in this application from Spain to mobilise EUR 1 560 000 from the European Globalisation Fund to help 1 154 people made redundant in 593 different retail enterprises over a nine month period . 
I supported this request . 
in writing . - The textile industry is currently facing a challenging time all over Europe . 
The Commission proposes mobilising EUR 1 422 850 in response to 528 redundancies in 33 enterprises in the sector in Spain . 
in writing . - This application refers to the mobilisation of a global amount of EUR 1 422 850 from the EGF for Spain . 
The Commission 's assessment was based on : the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns or the financial crisis ; the unforeseen nature of the redundancies concerned ; demonstration of the number of redundancies and compliance with the criteria of Article 2 ( a ) ; the explanation of the unforeseen nature of those redundancies ; the identification of dismissing enterprises and workers targeted for assistance , the territory concerned and its authorities and stakeholders ; the impact of the redundancies as regards local , regional or national employment ; the coordinated package of personalised services to be funded , including its compatibility with actions funded by the Structural Funds ; dates on which the personalised services to affected workers were started or planned to start ; procedures for consulting the social partners , management and control systems . 
in writing . - The economic downturn in the automotive sector has led to 515 redundancies in the enterprise Lear Automotive ( Spain ) . 
I support the proposal to mobilise EUR 382 200 from the European Globalisation Fund to assist them . 
in writing . - I voted for this application for the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund to assist 658 redundancies in the enterprise H. Cegielski-Poznań and four of its suppliers , which operate in the manufacture of marine diesel engines in Poznań and the surrounding district . 
The Commission proposed mobilising EUR 114 250 and I support the proposal . 
in writing . - I voted for this proposal which intends to give long-term resident status to beneficiaries of international protection who have been residing legally on the territory of the EU for more than 5 years . 
This gives them an opportunity to integrate , which means being able to communicate in one of the official languages of their Member State of residence , and to increase their awareness of their rights and obligations , as well as of the core values of the Member State of residence . 
To this end , language training should be provided by the Member State to long-term residents . 
Member States should also be encouraged to develop training programmes about the fundamental laws and core values of the Member State of residence and principles of democracy , human rights and equality , as well as individual rights and obligations in that Member State . 
in writing . - I supported this report on the EU-Georgia agreement on the facilitation of issuance of visas . 
The process of deepening the relations between the EU and the countries of the South Caucasus , including Georgia , will undoubtedly contribute to improving the exercise of justice and the respect for freedoms . 
in writing . - I welcome this report which : 
recalls the pivotal role of the High Representative/Vice-President in coordinating EU operations in third countries and regions ; 
underlines that the structure and working methods of the European External Action Service ( EEAS ) should aim at ensuring the coherence and consistency of EU action in crisis situations ; 
calls therefore on the Council to grant the HR/VP a permanent mandate allowing her to activate a crisis cell , gathering representatives from all the appropriate services of the Commission and the Council and from all EU planning capabilities ( MIC , CMPD , EUMS , CPCC ) to coordinate the EU response in the event of disaster , in order to be able to start work quickly without having to systematically go to the Council ; 
suggests that this cell could be supported by a team , deployable within the first hours of the crisis , could be composed of civilian ( CRT , MIC ) , military and civ-mil ( EUMS , CPCC ) experts and could also benefit from SITCEN and SATCEN intelligence ; 
emphasises the need for optimal coordination between an EU disaster response and other EU instruments - particularly common security and defence policy ( CSDP ) civil or military missions and instruments ( i.e. Battlegroups ) . 
Regulation must reflect the fact that these technological advances are in need of suitable provisions in the legislation , so that they do not fall through regulatory gaps and inadvertently cause systemic risk to the overall functioning of the markets . 
I voted for this report which sets out such a coordinated approach . 
in writing . - Over the last decades , decentralisation of powers in several Member States has considerably reinforced regional and local authorities ' competences in the delivery of Community policies . 
The incorporation by the Reform Treaty of sub-national subsidiarity into the Community law for the policies of shared competence allows today territorial authorities to be more deeply involved in the decision-making process , both for the design and the implementation of policies , as fully dignified partners , to participate in achieving the Community objectives . 
This important step towards better multi-level governance answers repeated requests by the Parliament to reinforce the involvement of the sub-national authorities in the conception of policies , always respecting the different national constitutional assets . 
An efficient implementation depends strongly on how policies are conceived ; involving local and regional authorities also in this phase - as those knowing best the needs of their territory and of its population - is an assurance of more effective results at a later stage . 
It is crucial to place the emphasis on the pre-legislative phase of the decision-making process and on the added value offered by policies and best practices implemented at local and regional level to the development of territorial strategies in the EU . 
in writing . - The proposal amending Council Regulation ( EC ) No 337/2004 aims to harness the know-how and experience of immigration liaison officers for the benefit of Frontex and vice-versa , which was not a matter addressed in the original regulation . 
The amending proposal has the following objectives : harnessing of the know-how of liaison officers and of Frontex for their mutual benefit ; exploitation of the information obtained through the liaison officer networks and exchange of this via ICONet ( secure Information and Coordination Network for Member States ' migration management services ) ; accessing of the External Borders Fund to promote the creation of liaison officer networks and facilitate their operation and , lastly , to expedite the system for the presentation of the half-yearly reports . 
I welcome this measure . 
in writing . - In 2001 , the Commission submitted a proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of paid employment and self-employed economic activities . 
Despite a favourable opinion from the European Parliament , this ambitious proposal , which sought to establish the entry and residence conditions for third-country nationals wishing to undertake an economic activity within the Union , did not survive beyond its first reading within the Council , and the Commission officially withdrew it in 2006 . 
I welcome the fact that the new legal basis provided by the Lisbon Treaty gives this proposal a good chance of being adopted . 
Because they move in this way , they are defenceless when judicial and law enforcement cooperation fails to protect them by implementing a rapid , effective Europe-wide early warning and prevention mechanism . 
in writing . - The proposal for a directive on the European Protection Order , submitted by 12 Member States , is an initiative aimed at preventing crime . 
in writing . - Trafficking in human beings is a modern form of slavery , a serious crime and a severe violation of fundamental human rights which reduces people to a state of dependency via threats , violence and humiliation . 
The scale of this phenomenon is impressive , but certainly not known in full . 
in writing . - I welcome this report which is the sister of the report on the issuance of visas between the EU and Georgia . 
The package should ease travel and improve the EU 's relations in this part of the world . 
At the same time , the EU Member States are being directly confronted with the effects of globalisation . 
This report , entitled ` Achieving real territorial , social and economic cohesion within the EU - a sine qua non for global competitiveness ? ' is intended to spur debate among the Members of the European Parliament on the interdependence and complementary nature of the measures adopted at European and national level to fulfil the objectives of EU policies , including that of increasing global economic competitiveness . 
The report seeks to provide a framework highlighting the integrating role of cohesion policy and the contribution it makes to increasing the EU 's global competitiveness . 
I welcome the report and the debate . 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Madam President , for the past year I have served as personal representative of the chairman-in-office of the OSCE Kazakhstan , preparing a detailed report on the key environmental issues affecting central Asia . 
I have sent you a copy of my report , Baroness Ashton . 
One of the key issues which affects the whole of Central Asia is of course the question of transboundary water utilisation . 
As you know there is great and constant tension between the upstream and downstream nations in central Asia involving water use . 
But one aspect of this problem emerged during the course of my investigation that has , I think , been missed by many decision makers in the west . 
The mainstay of the Afghan economy is agriculture and any rebuilding of the economy in a post-conflict Afghanistan will mean massive investment in agriculture , encouraging for example farmers to switch from growing heroin poppies to growing pomegranates . 
That in turn will mean a huge additional utilisation of already scarce water resources . 
In other words , by helping to resolve the current conflict in Afghanistan , we could inadvertently create a series of mini-Afghanistans downstream as acute water shortages are exacerbated . 
We must take care to ensure that any new irrigation schemes are properly designed , with concrete-lined channels and reservoirs , and droplet irrigation systems similar to those used by farmers in Spain . 
In addition , any major energy projects involving hydroelectric power plants must be carefully designed and constructed to ensure that they do not create any disadvantage for downstream water users in neighbouring countries . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , I would like to thank the Commissioner for the information at the beginning of this debate . 
I would like to know what I am going to say to the likes of John Campbell of Glenrath Farms and all the producers in the United Kingdom who have spent , on average , GBP 2 million each to comply with the legislation and now incur an extra cost that is between 8 and 10 % higher than under a conventional cage system . 
What do I tell our consumers back home , to whom we promised that , by 1 January 2012 , there would be no more eggs on the market produced under the old conventional battery cage systems ? 
I know what I want this Parliament and the Commission to say . 
I want to be able to go back and tell them that we are going to take tough action to make sure that the legislation is complied with . 
I want Member States who are compliant to be able to protect their consumers and their producers by being able to ban imports of illegally produced eggs from those producers and countries which are not compliant . 
I also believe that the Commission should draw up a list , once it has the information , and name and shame those who have failed to comply . 
Commissioner , when you are winding up this debate , I hope you will give us a strong statement saying that you understand the concerns of producers and consumers and a promise of tough action that protects both of them . 
Initially , the legal bases for the EU education , training and youth programmes did not provide for participation by Switzerland , but this changed in 2006 when Parliament and the Council adopted decisions establishing the 2007-2013 Youth in Action and Lifelong Learning programmes . 
In February 2008 , the Council authorised the Commission to open negotiations about Swiss participation in the two programmes . 
An agreement was reached in August 2009 and the Council has already adopted a decision approving its signature and provisional application from 2011 . 
I supported this proposal . 
in writing . - Although it has chosen not to join the European Economic Area , Switzerland has shown sustained interest in closer cooperation with the EU in the education , training and youth fields . 
I warmly welcome Cathy Ashton 's commitment to human rights and her assurance during the debate that human rights will be mainstreamed into the work of the EEAS . 
I hope this will mean that when we debate the human rights report next year , we will be able to report a more coherent and consistent approach to human rights by the EU . 
in writing . - The rapporteur decided to focus exclusively on four areas where , he believes , targeted action could bring about real changes : international aid , the implications of the recently launched peace process , the impact of police training , and the elimination of opium cultivation . 
Although I do not support every conclusion he draws , I did vote for this well thought-out and useful contribution to the debate on Afghanistan . 
in writing . - I could not vote for this report because it sacrifices some of the European Parliament 's hard won new powers in international trade for the expediency of an agreement with the Council on implementing powers in other areas . 
in writing . - I welcome this resolution and , in particular , the oral amendment by Stephen Hughes which ` calls on the Council to provide the necessary political signal for a Commission investigation into a future system of Eurobonds , with a clear specification of the conditions under which such a system would be beneficial to all participating Member States and to the eurozone as a whole ' . 
in writing . - I fully support the call in this motion for Mr Gbagbo to step down and hand over power to Alassane Ouattara , the democratically elected President of Cote d'Ivoire . 
in writing . - I strongly support this resolution which demands that all the provisions of Directive 1999/74/EC on the welfare of laying hens be fully implemented by all Member States by the deadline of 1 January 2012 . 
It also requests that the Commission launch swift and effective infringement proceedings , with heavy and dissuasive fines , for lack of compliance with all elements of the directive . 
rapporteur . - Mr President , it is a good way to start the New Year with this debate and tomorrow 's vote on the deal concluded under the Belgian Presidency on this important report on construction products . 
I would like to start by thanking all colleagues who made this possible for their hard work , their thoughtfulness and commitment to making this proposal a reality . 
I would also like to put on record my thanks to the IMCO Secretariat and to the Belgian Presidency , in particular , to Mr Vertessen and Mr Haerynck for all their dedicated work . 
As I said in my report quoting the poet Robert Frost - ` Good fences make good neighbours ' ( with an implied question mark ) . 
It is important that we maintain the momentum to complete the internal market and break down barriers to trade . 
As Mario Monti in his report on the Single Market acknowledges , ` Europe is still in a phase of ` market construction ' that requires breaking down barriers to cross border activity , cutting dead wood of national administrative and technical barriers and overcoming corporate resistance ' . 
With this proposal we have attempted to make the single market work more effectively , we have attempted to have clearer and more transparent systems in place so that products placed on the market are of the highest standards and that the construction industry has a fairer market place to trade within . 
Currently , the construction industry is facing the economic challenges caused by the global financial meltdown of 2008 and exacerbated by the slow economic recovery we face across the EU . 
We should never forget what an important sector the construction industry is - 12 million EU citizens are directly employed in the sector and 26 million EU citizens are dependent on it - that is 38 million people reliant on the sector . 
For economic growth , construction is essential for jobs and employment . 
It is also one of the most dangerous sectors to work within . 
Taking Germany , whose safety record is second to none , one construction worker in 5 000 will suffer a fatal accident during their lifetime . 
The health and safety of those who work at the coalface of construction should always be remembered and it is important to have acknowledgement of this in the report . 
It was with this in mind that we successfully managed on both sides to come to some agreement on the issue of labelling hazardous substances , so that the report was in line with REACH but also helps those who work with products which , in the past , have led to chronic conditions and death - conditions such as asbestos-related mesotheliomia and , to an extent , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease caused by working conditions and by inhaling dust . 
The proper labelling of hazardous substances can help those with these lung conditions and illustrates how interlinked our work here is . 
I am proud of the fact that this report was conducted and concluded under the European Year of the Lung . 
Lung health is so often neglected and I was delighted that in this Parliament , we recognised its importance . 
I would also like to briefly comment on SMEs . 
In Parliament , we are urged to ` think small first ' and this should carry throughout our work . 
This is why we have managed to create a second stream for smaller corporations to place their products on the internal market and the system should make it cheaper and more practical for SMEs to reach a larger market place which can only increase their trading potential . 
On the separate issue over transparency concerning who serves on technical bodies and how they work , I think that we have moved the bodies which approve products further than was originally foreseen . 
In the European Union , we should always strive for better regulation . 
Along with my shadow rapporteurs , I have modified the sections of the report which are no longer relevant or which were so unclear that no one was able to follow them or ensure their application . 
For an industry such as the construction sector , it is imperative that the rules are clear and I look forward to seeing the difference these particular changes will make . 
The scale is huge and the challenges many , but today , these new rules which will come into force through Member States in the next 24 months will help the construction sector as we attempt to create economic growth and , through this , jobs . 
rapporteur . - Madam President , thank you to all colleagues who have taken the time to speak this afternoon and evening . 
I think Commissioner Tajani 's comments about partnership working , the road map and the issue of Eurocodes , which Mrs Rühle and ( I think ) Mr Schwab also mentioned , are important and that we take forward the good cooperation that we have had . 
There is something that struck me throughout this debate . 
The construction sector is so vitally important to our economies for future growth , for jobs , that I would like to ask the President whether we can make sure there is an annual debate in this House on the construction sector , to take forward the cooperation that the Commissioner has offered to us and to make sure that we always place the importance on the construction sector that this House should do , given that 38 million people rely on the construction sector for their jobs . 
So , thank you , Madam President , thank you , Commissioner , and I look forward to the weeks , months and years ahead , because the construction debate will continue in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection and I for one will certainly be following it . 
author . - Madam President , let me begin by thanking Yannick Jadot for his exemplary cooperation with his shadows . 
But , while welcoming these agreements , I nevertheless share with the rapporteur a number of concerns . 
I would just like to express three this evening . 
First and foremost , the danger - it is not the intention , but there is a danger - of agreeing such a framework is that it is seen as providing a framework for large-scale exploitation of our forests , leading to the opposite of the purpose of the agreement , namely , further degradation and further deforestation , thus contributing to the very destruction of the global environment we are trying to avoid . 
What we want is an agreement that contributes to the conservation and sustainable management of our biodiversity resources . 
I agree with the rapporteur that this means that the Commission has to constantly monitor the situation and report back regularly on how the agreement is progressing . 
Secondly , indigenous people , who are so often the victims of environmental exploitation , should benefit from this agreement . 
The promise in the Voluntary Partnership Agreement by the Congolese Government to promote a law ensuring that the rights of indigenous people are promoted and respected must be delivered upon . 
Again , I urge the Commission , in their contact with the government , to continually press for the delivery of this promise until it is there on the statute book in the Congo . 
Thirdly , we must ensure - and I agree with Catherine Bearder who mentioned this - that appropriate funds are available to properly implement this agreement . 
No matter how good an agreement is on paper , without the resources to carry it out , it is a meaningless piece of paper . 
That means we need to have money to verify the legality of timber coming into the European Union , we need money to train , equip and give the technical expertise to those operating in the African countries we have VPAs with , and we also need resources to carry out the monitoring that I have already mentioned . 
So we need to make sure , in the coming months , that we deliver the financial framework to make a success of these agreements . 
I repeat that these are good agreements but , like all agreements , they will depend on the goodwill and vigilance of individuals - the non-government organisations , the Member States , the Congolese and Cameroon governments - to deliver on their promises to make sure these agreements work in practice . 
We look to the Commission to keep a beady eye on the progress that is being made . 
rapporteur . - Madam President , firstly , I would like to say that I know that , for good reasons , Commissioner De Gucht can not be with us this evening . 
I would like to thank him for taking the trouble to call me last week and explain why he is unable to be here , and I would like to thank him and his team at DG Trade for their cooperation and , in particular , Martin Dihm for all his assistance . 
I have tried , in my role as rapporteur , to follow on from the good work of the previous rapporteur , my former colleague Glyn Ford . 
I am fortunate that the adoption of Glyn 's resolution in 2009 meant that Parliament already had a clear position on the EC-Pacific Interim Economic Partnership Agreement . 
Parliament 's formal position then is the one that I have tried to follow in my report and question today . 
I would like to thank Donatella Pribaz , who was the committee administrator responsible . 
Finally , in terms of acknowledgements , I would also like to welcome the presence here of the Ambassador for Papua New Guinea and to thank him and his staff for their close collaboration . 
The insights they provided allowed me to make specific input to the report . 
Thirdly , I will comment on the future of EC-Pacific trading relations . 
In terms of the background and regional integration , this interim - or goods only - EPA has been negotiated with two Pacific states - Papua New Guinea and Fiji . 
These are the two Pacific island states that have the highest levels of trade with the EU and have key exports destined for the EU market : tuna and sugar respectively . 
The EPA gives Papua New Guinea and Fiji duty-free and quota-free access to the EU market in return for the gradual liberalisation of their markets over a 15-year period . 
Papua New Guinea has committed to liberalising 88 % of EU imports on the date of application of this agreement , and Fiji will liberalise 87 % over a 15-year period . 
The remaining 12 Pacific states either enjoy duty-free and quota-free access through the Everything But Arms scheme or , because of their low level of trade with the EU , have very little interest in an interim EPA . 
Nevertheless , I believe it is important that , as we move towards a full EPA , we should pursue our objective of regional integration and continue to press for a full EPA involving all the Pacific states . 
In terms of the content of the resolution , Parliament has to consent to this agreement before it can be ratified . 
We will vote on Wednesday - as you have indicated , Madam President - on two different reports , firstly , on consent , which I am recommending that we give , and secondly on the accompanying motion for a resolution . 
There are other issues in the motion for a resolution but , as I have said , I want to comment particularly on three . 
First , regarding Aid for Trade , funding for implementation is crucial to achieving the agreement 's objectives of economic diversification and poverty alleviation . 
It is important that a fair and equitable share of the EUR 2 billion set aside in the 2007 Aid for Trade strategy is directed towards the Pacific region . 
It is also important to highlight that this interim EPA was conceived as a short-term measure to safeguard the Pacific 's trade preferences following the World Trade Organisation ( WTO ) ruling . 
Bearing that in mind , it should not be seen as a sign of EU acceptance of the political regime in Fiji . 
I would urge the Fijian Government to make moves towards democracy . 
I hope that the necessary reforms can take place to allow financial support for the Fijian sugar industry to be allocated . 
On fishing , the fisheries sector plays a key role in Papua New Guinea 's economy and - importantly - provides employment and income to its citizens . 
In the three tuna processing plants which export to the EU , there are 5 700 employees , the majority of whom are women . 
This is a country where it is sometimes difficult to find good employment for women . 
I support the purpose of the flexible rules of origin in this agreement , namely , to develop the processing industry , but it is essential that the industry develops in a sustainable manner . 
Environmental considerations are paramount and I have asked , in my report , for the Commission to monitor this aspect and to report back regularly to Parliament on compliance with the regulation on illegal , unreported , and unregulated fishing . 
I appreciate that there are some concerns in this House - and specifically in the Committee on Fisheries - about the potential impact of Papua New Guinea 's tuna imports on the EU industry . 
However , when we look at the latest figures , we can see that during the period 2003-2009 , imports made up around only 2 % of total preserved and prepared fish imports and around only 3 % of preserved and prepared tuna imports . 
I do not believe that this low level of imports will threaten the domestic EU industry , especially if we take into account the limited capacity of the Pacific states ' fishing fleets and the limited on-land processing capacity . 
Nevertheless , it is , of course , right that we should continue to monitor the situation and that , if there are any unexpected increases in fishing products coming from Papua New Guinea , the Commission should take appropriate action . 
As I mentioned earlier , I hope that the Pacific states can agree a comprehensive regional EPA . 
In my report , I have recommended the inclusion of several points of substance in future negotiations , which I hope the Commission will take into account . 
I also hope we will add transparency in government procurement as well as provision for issuing working visas of up to 24 months . 
author . - Mr President , I will be brief . 
I find myself almost , indeed entirely , in agreement with the Commissioner on this subject . 
Firstly , to repeat , it is important that we sign the interim EPA because , if we do not , existing trade preferences for Papua New Guinea and Fiji will disappear , under the WTO ruling . 
The interim EPA is precisely that : it is an interim arrangement , and I agree with all the colleagues who say that our objective in the long run should be a full , comprehensive EPA with all the Pacific countries , encouraging regional integration in the Pacific . 
But we have to take this step at the moment to ensure the continuation of preferences for the two largest countries in the Pacific region . 
There are no other parts of the world to which we intend giving such a derogation . 
Why are we giving a derogation to Papua New Guinea ? 
I will tell you : it is because Papua New Guinea is literally on the other side of the world , and the likelihood of EU fishing fleets exploiting that area extensively is limited , although they are free to do so . 
There is nothing to stop EU fishing fleets fishing in Papua New Guinea waters and landing their catch and getting their catch canned in Papua New Guinea - and , as has been said earlier , that would be very good for development , and indeed we should encourage it . 
But the situation at present is that Chinese boats , Thai boats and boats of other Asian nationalities are fishing in Papua New Guinea 's waters and landing their fish back in their own country , giving no opportunity for development in Papua New Guinea . 
There is a development opportunity here in terms of providing jobs , particularly for women . 
We often complain that we do not do enough in our development policy to encourage downstream activity . 
Here , we are actually doing something positive for downstream activity . 
If we have a sudden increase in the number of factories , and a sudden surge in imports from Papua New Guinea , then , of course , we will have to revisit the situation and potentially take action . 
At the moment , however , the statistics speak for themselves . 
So let us not exaggerate the situation . 
Let us not make a poor developing country pay for our preoccupation with our own self-interest . 
in writing . - I voted for this report because , according to the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament , the Council and the Commission , the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance . 
in writing . - I voted for this report , which is a simple piece of housekeeping updating the existing agreement to take into account the accession of Bulgaria and Romania . 
The proposal has no impact on the EU budget and is uncontroversial . 
in writing . - I voted to give consent to this agreement . 
Just as with other horizontal air agreements , this agreement provides for an EU designation clause permitting all EU carriers to benefit from the right of establishment , deals with safety issues and the taxation of aviation fuel and resolves potential conflicts with EU competition rules . 
in writing . - I wish to congratulate my Scottish colleague , Catherine Stihler , on her good work on this very technical subject . 
I voted for the report , which should ensure more transparency for bodies that create standards in the construction industry , places an emphasis on recycling and gives SMEs an easier route to the single market with simplified procedures . 
in writing . - I am extremely pleased that the construction report , for which I was rapporteur , was supported and voted into legislation by my colleagues . 
The report will result in hazardous substances being listed on the labelling of construction products and further studies to follow on the subject from the Commission . 
There are also provisions to make it easier for SMEs to place their products on the internal market . 
The need for greater transparency in approving products with the ` CE ' marking has been addressed and I look forward to the measures being introduced in July 2013 . 
in writing . - The EU as a bloc is the world 's largest contributor of humanitarian aid . 
Nevertheless , recent catastrophes have highlighted certain shortcomings in the EU 's ability to act in a speedy , efficient and coordinated manner . 
The Striffler reports underlines some of these concerns and it is to be hoped that positive action results from today 's vote . 
in writing . - I voted against the Sârbu report despite its numerous good points . 
Food is a fundamentally important issue and one which is going to be of increasing significance . 
It is essential that the EU takes a coordinated stance in relation to its agriculture sector in order to face the challenges which lie ahead . 
However , I do not consider that GMOs have a legitimate role to play in achieving security of food supplies and I could not support a report which proposes to give the green light to genetic modification . 
in writing . - I voted for this report , but abstained on the three parts of amendment 14 which dealt with GMOs . 
I am not intrinsically against GM foodstuffs but was nervous at this attempt to speed up the importation of GM material and the use of production methods from third countries . 
The scientific evidence that GM is safe must be robust , and the public must have full confidence that the appropriate authorities have taken all necessary safety precautions and carried out rigorous testing . 
This can not be rushed . 
in writing . - I voted for the removal of healthcare from the scope of the Services Directive some years ago , and I voted against the Cross-border Healthcare Directive at first reading . 
At the time , it was apparent that there was a tendency within the Commission to treat healthcare as a tradeable commodity . 
That is not how I regard healthcare - patients should not be treated as mere paying consumers . 
The Council has , however , vastly improved the draft legislation and moved its legal basis away from being a purely internal market issue . 
I accordingly voted in favour of the report and am confident that it will improve patients ' rights across Europe . 
in writing . - I voted for this report on the basis that it has now been clarified that British patients can receive abroad only the state-paid healthcare that they would be entitled to receive under the NHS . 
I welcome the fact that amendments seeking to extend entitlements by giving access to ` all methods of treatment that are sufficiently tested by international medical science ' or ` equally effective healthcare ' were defeated . 
The burden on the NHS of uncontrolled use of cross-border healthcare could have been enormous . 
in writing . - I welcome this resolution which accompanies the consent procedures for the Voluntary Partnership Agreements on forest law and the trade in timber with Cameroon and the Congo . 
The resolution rightly emphasises that sufficient funding , monitoring and NGO and civil society involvement will be vital if the VPAs are to achieve their aims . 
This Voluntary Partnership Agreement should help tackle corruption and significantly reduce the trade in illegal timber . 
in writing . - I am delighted that Parliament gave overwhelming support to my recommendation that we consent to the EU-Pacific interim EPA . 
The interim agreement between Papua New Guinea , Fiji and the European Community was initialled on 14 December 2007 . 
These two countries were the only ones in the Pacific Region to enter into the agreement , as the other members of the Pacific regional grouping - because of their low levels of trade in goods with the EU - chose not to sign . 
Fiji and Papua New Guinea entered the agreement mainly with the hope of protecting their sugar and tuna industries , which would have suffered greatly under the Generalised System of Preferences . 
The Interim Agreement covers rules of origin and market access issues . 
Regarding rules of origin , it covers fisheries , textiles and agriculture , leading to investment and employment opportunities . 
Regarding market access , duty-free and quota-free access to markets is to be granted , providing investment and employment opportunities . 
Trade and development issues are to be dealt with within the wider regional framework . 
in writing . - Our national legal systems all have their own ways of dealing with adoption and other childcare issues . 
However , since issues such as people trafficking and the sexual exploitation of children have such an international dimension , EU-level action may be appropriate . 
We must never lose sight of the fact that the best interests of the child are paramount , and accordingly , I voted in favour of this resolution . 
in writing . - I welcome this resolution which calls for consideration to be given to the possibility of coordinating at European level strategies concerning the instrument of international adoption , in accordance with international conventions , in order to improve assistance in the areas of information services , preparation for inter-country adoption , the processing of applications for international adoption and post-adoption services , bearing in mind that all international conventions relating to the protection of the rights of the child recognise the right of orphaned or abandoned children to have a family and to be protected . 
in writing . - Serbia 's moves towards EU membership are to we welcomed and will hopefully strengthen peace and prosperity in that area . 
Parliament 's resolution calls for full respect for minority culture and languages - issues which lie at the very core of the European Free Alliance group . 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution which notes Serbia 's progress on reform and the Council 's recent request to the Commission to prepare the opinion on Serbia 's application for EU membership . 
Nevertheless , the resolution rightly points out that ` full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia ' , including delivering the last two fugitives to The Hague , ` is a fundamental condition for Serbia to progress on the path to EU membership ' . 
in writing . - The Matias report deals with an issue of increasing importance in our ageing society . 
In my own country , the Scottish Government has made dementia a national priority , and Scottish expertise is being used in research of international significance . 
This European initiative is to be welcomed as a means of better coordinating the EU 's work against dementia . 
in writing . - I voted for this own-initiative report which is Parliament 's reply to the Commission Communication on a European Initiative on Alzheimer 's disease and other dementias . 
Its key objectives are : the promotion of early diagnosis and quality of life ; improvement of epidemiological knowledge of the disease and coordination of existing research ; support for solidarity between Member States through sharing best practices ; and finally , respect for the rights of people living with dementia . 
These are all welcome proposals , as I believe a European strategy on dementia should put more emphasis on the social dimension of people living with dementia and their carers while further supporting research into prevention and early diagnosis . 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution which commends the efforts and achievements of humanitarian organisations ( the Red Cross , NGOs and the United Nations ) as well as the Member States , and stresses the need to communicate the non-visible effects of humanitarian work and the fact that the situation was brought under control thanks to , inter alia , the provision of care for the injured , drinking water , food and temporary shelter . 
However , the resolution also notes that the cholera epidemic has highlighted the near-total helplessness of the Haitian State in the face of an easily preventable and treatable disease , along with the limitations of the international aid system in a country benefiting from massive humanitarian deployment ( 12 000 NGOs ) ; stresses that humanitarian agencies can not and must not continue to make up for the weaknesses of the Haitian State or to take its place , and that urgent action must finally be taken to ensure long-term development , in particular , as regards access to healthcare and drinking water and urban renewal . 
It also welcomes the collective commitment made by the Commission and the Member States at the International Donors ' Conference for the reconstruction of Haiti to donate a total of EUR 1.2 billion , including EUR 460 million in non-humanitarian aid from the Commission . 
in writing . - One of the earliest tasks of the re-established Scottish Parliament was to remove from the statute book a law prohibiting the ` promotion ' of homosexuality in Scotland 's schools . 
The law had been enacted by the right-wing unionist government of Margaret Thatcher - a government which had no legitimacy among the people of Scotland . 
The Scottish Parliament saw things differently and reformed the law to make it fitter for the 21st century . 
It is to be hoped that the people of Lithuania choose to be similarly minded . 
in writing . - There can be no tolerance of discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation ( or indeed on any other grounds ) in the European Union . 
I therefore welcome this resolution , which takes a tough line against signs of intolerance in Lithuania and makes it clear that the EU institutions will not sit back and allow Lithuania to pass laws that discriminate against a section of society . 
in writing . - I welcome the opening of negotiations between the EU and Libya , as a step to develop a new relationship for the EU in the Mediterranean region and in Africa . 
I also consider cooperation with Libya useful in addressing issues such as security and stability , migration , public health , development , trade , climate change , energy and culture . 
However , I urge the Council and the Commission to press Libya to ratify and implement the Geneva Convention on Refugees of 1951 and its 1967 Protocol , including full cooperation with the UNHCR , so as to guarantee adequate protection and rights for migrants , and adopt asylum legislation that recognises refugees ' status and rights accordingly , notably , the prohibition of collective expulsion and the principle of non-refoulement . 
I also remind the Council and the Commission of their obligations to ensure full compliance of the EU 's external policy with the Charter of Fundamental Rights , particularly its Article 19 , which prohibits collective expulsion and grants the principle of non-refoulement . 
I urge the Council and the Commission to request that the Libyan authorities sign a Memorandum of Understanding granting the UNHCR a legal presence in the country , with a mandate to exercise its full range of access and protection activities . 
in writing . - I welcome the suggestion of an EU policy for the High North , but any such policy must be conscious of the need to protect the fragile environment of the Arctic and underline the importance of overall stability and peace in the region . 
It should stress that the EU should pursue policies that ensure that measures to address environmental concerns take into account the interests of the inhabitants of the Arctic region , including its indigenous peoples , in protecting and developing the region . 
It should also stress the similarity in approach , analysis and priorities between the Commission Communication and policy documents in the Arctic States and the need to engage in policies that respect the interest in sustainable management and use of the land-based and marine , non-renewable and renewable natural resources of the Arctic region , which , in turn , provide important resources for Europe and are a major source of income to the inhabitants of the region . 
in writing . - I voted for this report , which stresses that the main objective pursued by the EU and the Member States in the EU strategy for the Black Sea region should be to establish an area of peace , democracy , prosperity and stability , founded on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and providing for EU energy security , and considers that good governance , the rule of law , promotion of respect of human rights , migration management , energy , transport , the environment , and economic and social development should constitute priority actions . 
author . - Mr President , it was my intention today to compare the Islamic Republic of Iran to Nazi Germany but I have to say that I think in many ways , it can be even worse . 
Eighty-seven people have been hanged in the past four weeks . 
Ahmadinejad is a holocaust denier and a hater of the Jews ; he says he wants to wipe Israel off the map and he is now building nuclear weapons that will enable him to do so . 
He and Khamenei preside over the ruthless suppression of the citizens of Iran , with hangings , torture , stoning to death , amputations and floggings all commonplace , and the execution of children , and even pregnant women , routine . 
Two prisoners in Mashhad had their hands amputated this week ; two others have been sentenced to amputation and these verdicts will be carried out soon . 
Anyone who tries to expose this evil is immediately targeted . 
Nasrin Sotoudeh is a case in point : a courageous human rights lawyer who has defended many of the innocent people unjustly sentenced and executed by this fascist regime . 
Her outrageous sentence of 11 years ' imprisonment for doing her job is an insult to humanity . 
Well , I for one would sign up to that project today . 
Evil must never be allowed to prevail , and the sooner we can see freedom , democracy , humanity and women 's rights restored to Iran , the better it will be for the whole world . 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution and for Amendments 7 and 11 . 
Amendment 7 draws attention to the fact that some Latin American countries gained additional benefits after the WTO agreement through negotiating free trade agreements and that these agreements further weaken the position of ACP countries . 
Amendment 11 draws attention to human rights concerns in Columbia and Honduras . 
in writing . - I voted to give assent to the agreement on trade in bananas with 11 Latin American countries and the United States . 
By giving our assent , the European Parliament today put an end to the long-lasting ` banana war ' . 
I welcome the fact that , to reduce the impact of the agreement on the poorest ACP countries whose basic economy is based on bananas , the agreement foresees a financial instrument to help them modernise and diversify production . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this because the EU has been accused of violating trade rules by importing bananas from Africa , Caribbean and Pacific countries without any levy while imposing heavy taxes on other countries . 
Therefore I welcome the end of this trade war . 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution to repeal Council Regulation ( EC ) No 1964/2005 on the tariff rates for bananas . 
This is necessary as a result of the vote to give assent to the agreement on trade in bananas agreed at the WTO . 
in writing . - I support this compromise on the rights of bus passengers , guaranteeing a right to transport , a right to accessible travel information , the obligation for bus operators to organise mandatory disability awareness training for drivers , a right to compensation for damaged wheelchairs , a complaint-handling mechanism for all passengers , with independent national bodies to enforce the regulation and issue penalties . 
For all bus and coach journeys of 250 km or more , there will be specific assistance , free of charge , for disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility , both at terminals and on board and , where necessary , transport free of charge for accompanying persons . 
For blind and partially sighted people in particular , the provisions on accessible travel information and training of drivers in disability awareness would make a huge difference . 
Equal access to transport is essential for independence . 
Without equal access to transport , people with disabilities can not go to work , go shopping or take part in cultural and other leisure activities . 
While the text does not encompass all that I would want , by supporting it and strengthening the rights of all disabled passengers , I believe that an important step will be taken towards enabling Europe 's guide dog users to move across the European Union on an equal footing to other citizens . 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution which strongly supports the continued implementation of guarantee instruments in the framework of the Competitiveness and Innovation Programme ( CIP ) , the Risk-Sharing and Financing Facility under FP7 and the Structural Funds ( JEREMIE ) , with the aim of enhancing SME lending , and under the JASMINE initiative to support micro-finance institutions ; points out that their proper implementation is currently being hindered by overly complex administrative procedures ; asks the Commission to make it easier to use the Structural Funds in connection with SME finance instruments , particularly to finance revolving funds for guarantee schemes , whilst avoiding the creation of structures which duplicate existing schemes , e.g. at national level . 
in writing . - I voted for this report but retain serious doubts about Croatia 's suitability for membership . 
Significant progress needs to be made in a number of areas , not least in tackling corruption . 
in writing . - I abstained on this report . 
While , on the one hand , I have the highest admiration for the work done by Mr Brok , on the other , I have serious doubts about using parliamentary immunity to prevent due legal process on a tax avoidance case . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this report which suggests further improvements to the rapid alert system for dangerous consumer products in the EU . 
Improving effectiveness and visibility of customs rules will help to tackle poor product safety , ultimately benefiting consumers . 
in writing . - I voted for this report because there was nothing in it to object to . 
However , given the limited impact of H1N1 influenza , I am not sure why Parliament decided to allocate time and resources to it . 
in writing . - I supported this report which evaluates the management of H1N1 influenza and calls for a joint procurement mechanism for vaccinations . 
It is important that we learn from previous outbreaks so that we can protect ourselves better in the future . 
in writing . - I voted for the report on the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean ( GFCM ) Agreement Area . 
The present proposal for a regulation is simply intended to transpose various recommendations adopted by the GFCM , and already in effect in the GFCM 's contracting States , into a single Community legislative act into which future recommendations can be incorporated by way of amendments to that act . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this report which seeks to simplify the existing arrangements relating to fishing practice within the Mediterranean Agreement Area . 
in writing . - In voting for this report , Euro MPs are responding to the public 's call for fair taxation of the financial sector . 
In this vote , MEPs have backed the hundreds of thousands of campaigners who are actively working for a Robin Hood Tax - a tiny tax on financial transactions that can raise billions to meet priorities at home and our commitments to fighting poverty and climate change internationally . 
The financial sector is largely exempt from VAT and is under-taxed , while ordinary citizens have faced the costs of the financial crisis , including contributing EUR 9 500 in government support from every man , woman and child in the EU . 
Global agreement would be the best way to introduce such a tax , but the UK 's stamp duty on shares demonstrates it is possible to introduce a successful , well-designed financial transaction tax ( FTT ) without undermining competitiveness . 
An EU-wide coordinated FTT would be the first step towards a global FTT . 
It is time for action and the EU can lead this campaign for global fairer taxation . 
in writing . - In contrast to my Scottish Conservative and Scottish Liberal colleagues , I have supported this report which addresses a variety of possible financing sources including a Financial Transactions Tax . 
It also calls for a debate on the use of revenue which could come from a FTT . 
in writing . - I voted for this report and welcome its focus on inequality in health among lower socio-economic groups . 
in writing . - I voted against this report which sends out a highly protectionist message as regards Parliament 's attitude to trade . 
Taken literally , this report would make it impossible for the EU to negotiate any meaningful FTAs or , for that matter , complete the Doha Development Round . 
in writing . - I welcome this report , which draws attention to the EU protein deficit and the need to rebalance that deficit , but I oppose measures that would mean increased subsidies for farmers to ensure EU protein production . 
My view is that encouraging domestic protein crop production needs to be done in line with a reformed CAP which sees the EU moving towards sustainable farming and greater market orientation and , importantly , moving away from trade-distorting subsidies . 
in writing . - I voted for this report , which notes that there is a need to strengthen the gender dimension in the fight against poverty . 
Specific measures should be taken to stop women vulnerable on account of a disability or their status as immigrants or minorities falling into precarious situations , and to facilitate their integration into society . 
in writing . - I supported this report which recognises that across the EU , women are more impacted by poverty , and that we need to work together to address this . 
I was disappointed that again , British Conservatives opposed this report on the 100th anniversary of International Women 's Day . 
in writing . - I voted for Amendment 1 , which deletes the part-session proposed for week 40 in 2012 . 
I see this as a small step in cutting the waste involved in travelling from Brussels to Strasbourg . 
in writing . - I believe that holding two separate plenary sessions in October is unnecessary . 
By stopping the practice of travelling to Strasbourg twice in one month , the Parliament can set an example in reducing its CO2 emissions and saving public money . 
in writing . - I voted for Amendment 1 which deleted the part-session proposed for week 40 in 2013 . 
As with the decision on the 2012 calendar , this is a contribution to cutting Parliament 's costs . 
in writing . - I voted for this report , which commends Turkish citizens and civil society for supporting Turkey 's further democratisation and for their commitment to an open and pluralistic society , but notes Turkey 's slow progress with regard to reforms and recalls that the Turkish Government has committed itself to undertaking comprehensive reforms , both with a view to fulfilling the Copenhagen criteria and for the sake of Turkey 's own modernisation , and calls on the government to increase its efforts in that respect . 
in writing . - I supported this report which recognises the constitutional changes which have taken place in Turkey but also addresses areas which remain problematic , such as their failure to implement the Ankara Protocol . 
By encouraging Turkey to continue carrying out reforms , the European Parliament hopes to see improvements in human rights and equality laws which will benefit Turkish citizens . 
in writing . - I voted for this report , which welcomes the general consensus and high priority given to European integration by the government and opposition parties in Montenegro , which has resulted in good progress in the reform process since the independence of the country , and which welcomes the new political leadership in Podgorica and encourages the new government to continue Montenegro 's European integration process and speed up the reforms leading to fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this resolution which would see Montenegro achieve candidate status for the European Union . 
It also highlights the issues of equality and corruption which need to be tackled within Montenegro and calls for measures to be taken to tackle these problems . 
in writing . - I welcome this report on the plight of the Roma - the most marginalised group in the European Union . 
This resolution offers an opportunity for the Roma to be better integrated into society . 
in writing . - I supported this report which aims to combat discrimination against the Roma people and calls on Member States to produce policies for their integration into the labour market . 
The Roma people is one of the most marginalised groups in the EU , which is why we need to ensure that action is taken to tackle the social exclusion that they face . 
in writing . - I agree with this report that an EU strategy to promote strong and skilled human resources with a strong creative potential and active involvement in innovation and development , new and innovative technologies/processes/solutions which generate added value , R&D geared to the needs of sustainable development , an efficient supply chain for the production of high quality goods and services , more efficiently organised production and management systems , overall greater resources efficiency that leads to a reduced carbon footprint , cost-efficient and sustainable modes of transport , smart and efficient logistics and high quality infrastructure , a consolidated and fully operational single internal market , and a level playing field in trade relations with third countries , is the only means of increasing the sustainability and competitiveness of European industry and thus maintaining its global leadership . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this report which highlights ways in which the EU 's industrial base may be strengthened . 
Industry provides roughly a third of employment in the EU , which is why it is so vital that we ensure its ongoing viability . 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Mr President , Baroness Ashton , I am deeply concerned about the progress of the situation in Iraq . 
There is now an indication that Ayad Allawi , whose al-Iraqiya Party won the election last March , is going to withdraw from the coalition because Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki has defaulted on the many promises that he made to al-Iraqiya in the coalition deal . 
If that happens , we are going to be back to square one , with a sectarian government , backed by both al-Hakim and Muqtada al-Sadr at the behest of Tehran , and we will have a destabilised situation where the party who won the election is no longer in government . 
That can not be acceptable surely , in terms of the future of the Middle East . 
in writing . - The closure of large sectors of European air space in April and May last year due to the volcanic eruption in Iceland caused severe traffic disruption and economic damage and affected 10 million passengers directly . 
Pilots are trained to manage extraordinary flight conditions , the commercial airlines ' safety manuals are reviewed , overseen and confirmed by regulatory authorities , and airlines have the necessary experience of operating over volcanic areas , as is shown by their safety record . 
The airline operator ( the pilot ) should therefore be responsible for assessing the risk and ensuring the safety of flights by , for example , choosing routes or deciding if rerouting is necessary , taking into account all the information available ( provision of more information and improved technical equipment on board aircraft ) . 
I hope the Commission will liaise with the appropriate authorities to ensure that in the future , they are allowed to get on with their job . 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution because I believe the Hungarian media law should be suspended as a matter of urgency and reviewed on the basis of the Commission 's , the OSCE 's and the Council of Europe 's comments and proposals , in order to ensure that it is fully in conformity with EU law and European values and standards on media freedom , pluralism and independent media governance . 
in writing . - I am very pleased that this resolution was passed highlighting the European Parliament 's commitment to freedom of expression and the independence of the media throughout Member States . 
in writing . - I welcome the push for democracy in Libya and in neighbouring countries . 
To enforce a no-fly zone , we would have to bomb anti-aircraft missile sites , with a threat to civilian life . 
We would also allow the regime to claim that the West was attacking Libya , rather than attempting to defend the people of Libya . 
in writing . - I voted for this report , which condemns the human rights situation in Iran and calls for measures to be taken to prevent Iran becoming a nuclear power . 
I am concerned that the resolution recognises ` Iran 's right to enrich uranium ' which is of course correct under the rules of the IAEA , but , given the continuing impasse in the negotiations , is contrary to the UN Security Council resolutions . 
in writing . - I supported this report as I strongly believe that the Iranian Government should respond positively to the Iranian people 's demands for basic freedoms and improved social and economic conditions . 
Through this report , the European Parliament condemns the use of the death penalty as well as numerous other abuses of human rights . 
in writing . - I welcome this resolution , which emphasises the interdependence of civil , political , economic , social and cultural rights and points out that access to water is a human right . 
I particularly welcome the adoption of Amendment 19 calling for a follow-up to the Goldstone report . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this resolution as it highlights the important role that the EU plays in working with the Human Rights Council . 
Given recent events in Libya , it is crucial that we continue to campaign for and seek to defend human rights at an international level . 
on behalf of the S&D Group . - Mr President , I , too , wanted to pay tribute to the courage and the work of Shahbaz Bhatti . 
I know many colleagues in this House have met him personally and his determination to work for minority communities in Pakistan , to hold up their rights , is an example to us all . 
The fact is that he put his life on the line ; he knew that the threats were increasing , and his bravery should be recognised . 
He has lost his life and we in this House have lost a friend . 
I think there are a number of important points in this resolution . 
Paragraph 13 about calling on the competent EU institutions to include the issue of religious tolerance in society is vitally important . 
I would also call on the Commission , in talks and in trade issues as well , to bring up the issue of human rights too . 
Paragraph 19 about the institutions and the government of Pakistan is also important , as is the call for recognition of democracy and human rights . 
I think that , at the end of the day , we all would like to make sure our condolences are sent and I hope the President of Parliament will send a personal letter to Shahbaz Bhatti 's mother . 
His funeral was last week and I think that is also important . 
in writing . - It is appropriate that we vote on Mr Chichester 's report on a day when we have learned that the EU 's institutions have been subjected a large-scale cyber attack . 
Information security is of increasing importance to all our citizens and I was happy to vote in favour of this report . 
in writing . - I voted for this Report on the Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation ( EC ) No 460/2004 establishing the European Network and Information Security Agency as regards its duration . 
I welcome the first reading agreement . 
in writing . - One of course has to agree with the joint resolution tabled on behalf of the political groups on the triple tragedies in Japan of earthquake , tsunami and nuclear accident and join in expressing Europe 's condolences for those who lost their lives in these awful events . 
However , Japan 's appreciation of our sincerity behind this resolution will , I am sure , be tempered - when it is adopted almost unanimously tomorrow - by the actions of Member States that have either at best overreacted and threatened public panic or at worst used the opportunity to impose protectionist measures . 
The Spanish Government has urged that goods from Japan should be checked carefully for radiation , the Netherlands has cautioned dock workers to handle all containers from Japan with care , France is demanding a check on all goods before being exported from Japan and German customs is demanding random checks for radiation on all goods , including cars , imported from Japan . 
Most of these restrictions have been imposed on goods that had been produced and left Japanese ports weeks if not months before the earthquake ! 
So much for solidarity ! 
in writing . - I welcome this resolution as I think we need to support those in Japan and also to learn from this terrible situation . 
in writing . - It is appropriate that we will vote on a report on tourism on 6 April , which is known as Tartan Day . 
Tartan Day is a day of celebration where Scotland reaches out to our diaspora in North America and encourages our North American friends to come and visit us . 
It falls on the anniversary of the signing of Scotland 's independence declaration , the Declaration of Arbroath . 
That centuries-old document sums up well the principles upon which all my work here is guided : ` It is in truth not for glory , nor riches , nor honours that we are fighting , but for freedom - for that alone , which no honest man gives up but with life itself ' . 
in writing . - I voted for this report giving support through the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund to 594 workers made redundant in Poland . 
The EUR 0.45 million will be used to retrain and support workers through a difficult transition . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this report which will provide funding for personalised measures to help workers who have been made redundant in Poland . 
in writing . - I welcome this report 's recognition of the important role women play in agricultural production and the need to adapt certain policies and conditions to assist them . 
However , I do not believe this should be used as a justification to throw even more money at the CAP . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this report as I support the gradual decommissioning of nuclear power plants . 
in writing . - I welcome this report which releases funds from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund to assist workers made redundant in the Czech Republic . 
The application relates to 634 redundancies that occurred following the closure of a Unilever plant in Nelahozeves in the last quarter of 2009 . 
Four hundred and sixty redundant workers will benefit from personalised measures supported by EGAF funding to a total of EUR 0.32 million . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this report which will provide funding for personalised measures to help workers who have been made redundant in the Czech Republic . 
The main EU export control tool is the Dual-use Regulation ( EC ) No 428/2009 of 5 May 2009 , which entered into force on 27 August 2009 . 
The Dual-use Regulation includes regularly updated lists of controlled dual-use items that reflect those of the main international export control regimes . 
Gender-based violence is always primarily a criminal matter . 
Society must therefore respond with punishment which is proportional to the seriousness of the crime . 
In setting priorities for the allocation of society 's resources , it is important to have a clear victim 's perspective , since it is this group which currently needs special protective measures . 
This does not exclude devoting resources to individual offenders by , for example , offering conversation therapy and other methods to counteract violent behaviour . 
This form of alternative treatment for men who have committed serious assaults on women , however , should never replace the penalty imposed by criminal law . 
Conversation therapy and other such forms of treatment can only supplement other forms of punishment , such as prison . 
in writing . - I supported this report which puts forward proposals to tackle violence against women across Europe and calls for all Member States to prioritise this issue . 
in writing . - I voted for this Commission proposal for mobilisation of the EUSF which is based on point 26 of the IIA of 17 May 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management that allows for such mobilisation within an annual ceiling of EUR 1 billion . 
This proposal for mobilisation of the EUSF is the first to be presented by the Commission for the year 2011 . 
in writing . - I support this Commission proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund . 
On the basis of applications for assistance by Poland , Slovakia , Hungary , the Czech Republic , Romania and candidate country Croatia relating to the flooding disasters of May , June and July 2010 , it proposes the application of the EU Solidarity Fund . 
The rapporteur believes that these upgrades to the Euromed free trade agreements can contribute towards economic and political stability in this key region with a view to consolidating a single area of peace , development , justice , equality , freedom , plurality , democracy and respect . 
Furthermore , the proper application of such a mechanism could increase the security and the predictability of our bilateral trade relations and could represent a further step towards the setting up and proper functioning of the Euromed Free Trade Area . 
in writing . - I support the rapporteur who proposes that Parliament gives its consent to this agreement . 
The creation of a standard dispute settlement mechanism is welcomed , as it should provide streamlined and effective redress procedures within firm time limits . 
in writing . - Notwithstanding the uncertain situation in Egypt , I think Parliament is right to press ahead with the approval of this agreement which should make life easier for businesses without making any political comment on the current Egyptian Government . 
in writing . - I voted for this technical report giving approval for the Ukraine to participate in European Union programmes . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of Ms Fraga 's report , which allows Greenland to export fishery products to the EU despite not being a member . 
When Greenland won significant home-rule and decided to opt out of the EC , they had to negotiate their exit . 
This precedent gives the lie to false claims that internal enlargement of the EU would require newly independent EU states to reapply for membership . 
in writing . - I voted for this proposal which lays down rules regarding imports into the EU from Greenland of fishery products and other marine products . 
Greenland and the EU intend to enter into a sanitary arrangement on these products , with the objective being that Greenland can trade these commodities with the EU on the basis of internal market rules , provided that Greenland transposes EU sanitary and animal health rules on fishery products . 
in writing . - The Guillaume report covers important areas of law and emphasises the need for human rights to be fully respected in relation to people seeking asylum . 
My own country , Scotland , does not as yet have control over immigration . 
However , the policies which have been implemented by successive UK governments have been quite inhumane . 
I am proud to be a member of a party which has actively campaigned against the brutal incarceration of young children seeking asylum . 
The first days when refugees arrive in Europe are crucial in determining their status and European countries must , by 2012 , improve their asylum procedures at that very first stage , according to the report . 
Notably , the adopted report calls on EU countries to enhance the minimum procedural safeguards , particularly as regards the right to free legal assistance , the right to information , and the right to personal interview ; to give special attention to vulnerable applicants , like children ; and the adoption , in codecision with the European Parliament , of a common list of safe third countries . 
in writing . - I voted for this report which recognises the major role of statistics in the development of more effective tourism policies at European , national , regional and local levels . 
In the same manner , tourism statistics represent a useful tool to support decision making in business and in the private sector . 
Therefore , the rapporteur supports the aim of the proposed regulation to establish a common framework for the systematic production of European statistics on tourism by means of the collection , compilation , processing and transmission by the Member States of harmonised European statistics on tourism supply and demand . 
Once adopted , the proposal is likely to improve the timeliness , comparability and completeness of the statistics transmitted , as well as the efficiency of the data processing , including better validation of data . 
Furthermore , it is necessary to adapt the legal framework to reflect recent trends in the tourism industry by introducing new variables , for instance , concerning same-day visits . 
The modifications made in this legislation should facilitate moves towards a policy of regionalisation for the CFP which I welcome . 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution but , in order to support the Scottish fishing industry , I want haddock exempted from the regulation . 
in writing . - I voted against this resolution as I can not support a 2.3 % increase in Parliament 's budget at a time when the Council has made cuts of 4.4 % and the Commission will limit its administrative expenditure rise to 1 % . 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution , which challenges an authorised claim about baby food . 
However , the synthesised DHA which is added to formula milk is different . 
Formula milk producer Mead Johnson has applied to the European Food Safety Authority ( EFSA ) and the Standing Committee on Food Chain and Animal Health ( SCFCAH ) for permission to use the health claim ` Docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) intake contributes to the normal visual development of infants up to 12 months of age ' . 
The claim has been authorised , based on evidence supplied by Mead Johnson . 
However , an independent review of all the available evidence on DHA in formula milk in 2008 found that adding DHA to formula milk ` had no proven benefit regarding vision , cognition or physical growth ' . 
Furthermore , no studies were submitted to EFSA that showed the effect of giving a baby follow-on formula supplemented with DHA after feeding the baby non-supplemented infant formula from birth . 
As this claim would only be allowed on follow-on formulas , this is crucial . 
in writing . - I voted for this report , which calls for better definition of investor protection standards and greater transparency in the arbitration system , the right to appeal against decisions by international arbitrators and the possibility to consult trades unions and civil society organisations . 
Until now , investment agreements were so focused on investor protection that companies could sometimes operate in developing countries without respect for environmental or social considerations . 
Such behaviour will no longer be tolerated . 
This is why the report calls for new rules and for corporate social responsibility to be a core element of any future agreement . 
The world has changed . 
The EU will increasingly receive foreign investment and we can not push investor protection to the detriment of the general interest . 
The report calls for a real balance between public and private interests . 
It aims at effective protection of European investors from illegitimate expropriations or disguised legislation intended to cut them out of certain markets . 
It also guarantees that public authorities will always be able to regulate in favour of the general interest . 
I call for root and branch reform of the dispute settlement mechanism , which so far enabled private companies to take legal action against countries and sometimes attack their social and environmental law . 
in writing . - Fraud within the EU strikes at the very integrity of the system . 
It is vital that the EU and its Member States continue the important work in this area and I was able to support this report . 
in writing . - I voted for this report , which strongly criticises the Commission for providing too little information on fraud and irregularities . 
This is considered a result of bad reporting by Member States . 
The fraud rates in France and Spain are , for example , considered ` suspiciously low ' . 
In future , we want to see a clear division between irregularities and fraud , given that fraud is a criminal offence , whereas an irregularity is a failure to comply with a rule . 
The report also asks for a breakdown of estimated fraud and irregularities for each Member State so that disciplinary action can be taken against individual countries . 
Large amounts of EU funding is still spent incorrectly , says the resolution . 
Parliament calls on the Commission to take action to ensure prompt recovery of those funds , especially in Italy . 
In agriculture and cohesion policy in particular , the rate of recovery of outstanding amounts is ` catastrophic ' . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this report as the fight against fraud is not only in the EU 's financial interest but is also crucial to protecting consumers . 
in writing . - I voted for this report , which I see as a major step towards creating a legal statute governing political parties at the European level . 
in writing . - The Kalniete report rightly emphasises the importance of authorities below the Member State government level in implementing rules relating to the Single Market . 
I fully support this sentiment and consider that , when Scotland wins back her independence , it will be appropriate for those levels of government below the Scottish national government to be fully involved in implementing Single Market rules . 
in writing . - I voted for this report which states that one of the key challenges in relaunching the Single Market is ensuring political leadership , commitment and coordination . 
The 50 proposals for relaunching the Single Market encompass numerous portfolios , crucially involving the competences of several commissioners in the Commission , and touch upon the jurisdiction of various committees in the European Parliament . 
In the Council , the Single Market Act is furthermore split into different Council configurations whose role and effectiveness vary a great deal . 
National institutions also differ a lot in the ways that they are configured and in their organisational cultures . 
in writing . - I supported the twelve measures contained in the Single Market Act , in particular , focusing on the digital agenda and innovative procurement . 
I hope to see this translated into effective legislative measures by the Commission . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this report , which rightly highlights the need to ` respect the principles of subsidiarity and Member State sovereignty ' . 
It is just a pity that not all Member States are prepared to recognise where sovereignty lies . 
In 1953 , the Lord President of Scotland 's highest civil court confirmed that , unlike in other parts of the UK , in Scottish constitutional law , sovereignty lies with the people . 
How unfortunate therefore it is that all the unionist parties blocked attempts by the Scottish Government to promote this principle by way of a referendum on Scottish independence . 
in writing . - The Buşoi report calls for a business friendly Single Market and quite rightly stresses the importance of SMEs . 
This draft report outlines the priority measures which should be taken to build a stronger Single Market that responds better to the needs of EU businesses and which would generate higher growth rates than before . 
The priorities of the rapporteur are arranged in four groups , aiming at transforming the Single Market in an innovative , business friendly environment , based on a digital economy , and where free movement of services is effective . 
in writing . - I supported the twelve measures contained in the Single Market Act and hope that the Commission will translate this into effective legislative measures . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this report which will assist in the fight against bluetongue disease within the EU . 
in writing . - I voted against this resolution because the amendments adopted left us with a text which paid insufficient attention to nuclear safety issues . 
in writing . - I voted against the resolution in the final vote as I believe we need to debate this issue in the context of the overall EU energy strategy , not in the context of the Japanese nuclear tragedy . 
in writing . - After the defeat of the joint motion for a resolution , I voted in favour of this text which , while not perfect , struck a good balance between nuclear safety and a pragmatic approach to the issue . 
in writing . - I voted for this Verts/ALE Group resolution because all the other resolutions on the subject had fallen . 
I backed it to show support for the safety recommendations but was uncomfortable with the more extreme anti-nuclear sentiments it espoused . 
in writing . - I voted against this resolution , which I found almost naively pro-nuclear . 
I believe the EU must reassess its bilateral relations with Syria , Bahrain and Yemen in the light of their violent repression of demonstrators , and talks on a future Association Agreement with Syria must be suspended . 
I am also concerned about the presence of international troops in Bahrain and call for an investigation into the deaths of 54 protestors in Yemen . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this report as I support Iceland 's accession to the EU . 
in writing . - I voted for the report on Macedonia and welcome the continued efforts in the fight against corruption , manifested , amongst other things , by implementation of the second round of GRECO recommendations and the entry into force of the amendments to the Criminal Code . 
I encourage the authorities to continue implementing legislation to combat corruption and improving the independence , efficiency and resources of the judiciary . 
However , corruption remains prevalent and I call for further intensive efforts to eradicate it . 
I stress the urgency of effective and impartial enforcement of anti-corruption legislation , in particular , on the financing of political parties and on conflicts of interest . 
I draw attention to the importance of ensuring that the court system functions free of political interference and welcome the efforts to increase the efficiency and transparency of the court system . 
I stress the need to build up an enforcement record for prosecutions and convictions against which progress can be measured and call for the unification of jurisprudence in order to ensure a predictable judicial system and public trust . 
in writing . - I welcome this resolution which urges all the political forces in Côte d'Ivoire to respect the will of the people expressed freely in the results of the presidential elections of 28 November 2010 that were announced by the CEI and certified by the UNSG Special Representative , and which recognised Alassane Dramane Ouattara as President-elect of Côte d'Ivoire . 
The resolution asks all Ivorian parties , in particular , to refrain from , prevent , and protect civilians from all forms of illegal coercion and abuses of Human Rights . 
The resolution also condemns , in the strongest possible terms , the attempts by ex-President Gbagbo and his supporters to usurp the will of the Ivorian people by fomenting violence and undermining the integrity of the electoral process . 
It stresses , in this respect , that results of democratic elections must be fully respected by all participants , including the defeated candidates , and underlines that failure to uphold these results would further put at risk both peace and stability in Côte d'Ivoire ; 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution and encourage the countries in the region to cooperate more closely with each other and to engage in an enhanced and prolonged dialogue , at all relevant levels , regarding areas such as freedom , security and justice and , in particular , border management , migration and asylum , the fight against organised crime , trafficking in human beings , illegal immigration , terrorism , money laundering and drugs trafficking , as well as police and judicial cooperation . 
The resolution recalls that good neighbourly relations are one of the most important preconditions for progress by ENP countries towards EU membership . 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution which recalls , in the light of current events in the Southern Mediterranean , particularly in Tunisia and Egypt , the ENP 's failure to promote and safeguard human rights in third countries ; urges the EU to draw lessons from those events and to revise its democracy and human rights support policy so as to create an implementation mechanism for the human rights clause included in all agreements with third countries ; insists that the review of the ENP must prioritise criteria relating to the independence of the judiciary , respect for fundamental freedoms , pluralism and freedom of the press and the fight against corruption ; and calls for better coordination with the Union 's other policies vis-à-vis those countries . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this report , which has significant importance , given recent events in the EU 's southern neighbourhood . 
It is vital that the renewed policy supports democratisation and genuine reforms in the countries concerned . 
in writing . - I supported this resolution , which calls on the Commission and the Member State governments to strongly oppose the use of sexual assaults on , and intimidation and targeting of , women in Libya and Egypt and strongly condemns forced ` virginity tests ' inflicted by the Egyptian army on women protesters arrested in Tahrir Square and considers this practice as unacceptable , as it amounts to a form of torture ; calls on Egypt 's Supreme Military Council to take immediate measures to stop this degrading treatment and to ensure that all security and army forces are clearly instructed that torture and other ill-treatment , including forced ` virginity tests ' , can not be tolerated and will be fully investigated 
in writing . - I voted for this report which recommends the following steps to strengthen the EIB 's role in development : ( a ) the allocation of a greater number of dedicated and specialist staff with expertise in development issues and developing countries , as well as an increase in the local presence of staff in third countries , ( b ) increasing the share of the participation of local actors in the projects , ( c ) additional dedicated capital in the area of projects targeting development , ( d ) the allocation of more grants , ( e ) exploring the possibility of grouping the EIB 's activities in third countries together under a single separate entity . 
in writing . - I voted to give discharge to the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training . 
I congratulate the Centre for introducing a performance measurement system ( PMS ) in 2009 in respect of its 2009-2011 medium term priorities and its annual work programme , and for having set up a framework of performance indicators to monitor progress and measure output , outcome and impact ; I consider , in particular , that the introduction of a PMS helps the Centre manage and evaluate its impact , efficiency , effectiveness and relevance ; I believe , furthermore , that this system could include further improvements to the activity-based budget and closer monitoring of payment appropriations to avoid carryovers . 
in writing . - I voted to give discharge to the Community Fisheries Control Agency . 
in writing . - I voted to give the European Environment Agency discharge on its budget . 
However , I call on the Agency to improve , by the end of the year , the accuracy of the information provided by the operational departments on the estimation of accrued operational expenditure . 
Parliament urges the Authority to change this situation and to notify the Court of Auditors of the measures taken . 
in writing . - I voted to give discharge to the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addicition and , in doing so , welcome the fact that the Centre has further enhanced the annual forecast of its cash needs ; notes that this forecast is constantly updated and submitted as a supporting document to the relevant Commission services to justify the Centre 's quarterly request for payment of the next instalment of its annual subsidy allocated by the Union . 
in writing . - I voted to grant discharge to the European Maritime Safety Agency for its 2009 budget but call on the Agency to further reduce the number of posteriori commitments ( i.e. legal commitments that were entered into before the corresponding budgetary commitments were made ) ; reminds the Agency that , since 2006 , the Court of Auditors has reported infringements of Article 62 ( 1 ) of the Financial Regulation ; welcomes , nevertheless , the Agency 's efforts to improve this situation by providing ad hoc training to avoid posteriori commitments . 
in writing . - I voted to give discharge to the European Network and Information Security Agency and , in doing so , I note with disappointment that there has been no progress since the previous year concerning the refund of EUR 45 000 which is the amount of VAT paid in advance by the Agency to the tax authorities of the host Member State ; urges , therefore , the Agency to inform the discharge authority when this refund is made by the host Member State . 
in writing . - I voted to give discharge to the European Railway Agency for its 2009 budget . 
However , I regret the shortcomings in the management of the fixed assets ' inventory identified by the Court of Auditors but note the Agency 's assurance that this will be remedied in the 2010 accounts ; considers that uncertainty about the location of fixed assets is another illustration of the problems and additional costs arising from using two sites . 
in writing . - I voted to give the European Training Foundation discharge for its 2009 budget and welcome the Foundation 's initiative of providing the discharge authority with the IAS Annual Internal Audit Report concerning the Foundation . 
Parliament considers this to be a sign of transparency and a best practice to be followed by all other Agencies . 
in writing . - I voted to give discharge to the Euratom Supply Agency . 
To me , this raises the issue of the need to maintain the agency in its current form and organisation . 
in writing . - I voted to give discharge to European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working conditions but call on the Foundation to make sure that appropriations are made available only when the corresponding assigned revenue has been received ; notes , in fact , that the Court of Auditors reported that , contrary to its Financial Regulation ( Article 19 ) , the Foundation 's budget did not provide for specific headings for various programmes financed from assigned revenue ; notes , moreover , that under a programme financed by assigned revenue , the Foundation committed EUR 184 000 , although the assigned revenue actually received was only EUR 29 000 . 
I regret that the Court of Auditors was compelled to comment on the budgetary and financial statement of the Foundation , especially to the effect that the initial provisional accounts presented by the Foundation contained serious shortcomings , pointing to significant weaknesses in the financial organisation of the Foundation ; welcomes the Foundation 's confirmation that it will ensure , through additional training and resources , that its implementation of year-end procedures and its adherence to the deadlines for the presentation of its accounts is correct 
in writing . - I voted to give discharge to Eurojust and congratulate the agency for establishing measures to estimate the market value of relevant products/services before commencing a procurement procedure . 
I consider this initiative an important practice to be followed by other agencies . 
I welcome , in addition , the agency 's annual procurement plan for 2009 which greatly helped Eurojust 's units and services in the management of their tenders . 
I consider that these initiatives improve the authorising officer 's guidance and control . 
in writing . - I voted to give discharge to Frontex , but observe that the Court of Auditors reported , for the second year running , that the agency paid out amounts on the basis of unilateral grant decisions signed by the agency , while the rules in force make no provision for this type of instrument . 
I note that the amount paid out was more than EUR 28 000 000 in 2009 , and was EUR 17 000 000 in 2008 . 
I welcome , nevertheless , the agency 's initiative , made in response to the Court 's observation , of signing a framework Partnership Agreement with Member State border authorities . 
in writing . - I voted to give discharge to the European GNSS Supervisory Authority because the Court of Auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular . 
in writing . - I voted to grant discharge to the Artemis Joint Undertaking but I believe that , in view of the size of its budget and the complexity of its tasks , the Joint Undertaking should consider establishing an audit committee reporting directly to the governing board . 
in writing . - I voted to grant discharge to the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking . 
I am concerned , nevertheless , that the research activities pre-financed by the Commission in 2008 on behalf of the Joint Undertaking were not fully implemented during 2009 and that , as a result of delays in the projects , only EUR 8 700 000 or 65 % of the EUR 13 600 000 pre-financing was used . 
I am particularly concerned that the adoption , structure and presentation of the approved budget of the Joint Undertaking for 2009 were not in line with Regulation ( EC ) No 71/2008 setting up the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking , or with the Financial Rules of the Joint Undertaking . 
I therefore urge the Joint Undertaking to rapidly remedy this grave deficiency . 
in writing . - I voted for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the Joint Undertaking for the implementation of the Joint Technology Initiative on Innovative Medicines for the financial year 2009 . 
I urge the Joint Undertaking to complete the implementation of its internal controls and financial information system as a matter of urgency . 
in writing . - I voted for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the SESAR Joint Undertaking for the financial year 2009 . 
Nevertheless , I am concerned that an integrated management system - allowing costs to be allocated to specific work packages and funding sources for operational costs to be identified - was not in place by December 2009 . 
in writing . - I voted for this report because the committee responsible considers that , in giving the interview in question , Luigi de Magistris was acting in the performance of his duties as Member of the European Parliament and carrying out political activities by expressing his opinion on a matter of public interest to his constituents . 
in writing . - After considering the reasons for and against defending the Member 's parliamentary immunity , I agree with the recommendation of the Committee on Legal Affairs that Parliament should not defend the immunity of Bruno Gollnisch . 
in writing . - I support the waiver of Bruno Gollnisch 's immunity so that he can stand trial for the offence of incitement to racial hatred . 
in writing . - I welcome this agreement on the protection and sustainable development of Prespa Park . 
It is a vital habitat for the conservation of numerous rare and/or endemic fauna and flora species , as a nesting place of globally threatened birds , and as a depositary of significant archaeological and traditional heritage . 
in writing . - I welcome this agreement , the objective of which is to prevent , deter and eliminate IUU fishing through the implementation of effective port State measures , thereby ensuring the long-term conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources and marine ecosystems . 
in writing . - I support this own-initiative report because it supports the creation of a European Order for the Preservation of Assets and a European Order for the Disclosure of Assets . 
in writing . - I strongly believe this report indicates the need for the Commission to undertake a thorough spending review in order to identify possible savings which would reduce pressure on the budget during this period of austerity . 
in writing . - I voted for this report , which underlines the need for more rigorous examination of projects at the application stage in order to prevent shortcomings , and , accordingly , invites the Commission to further improve the use of guidance and checklists by providing clearer criteria for assessing grant applications in order to enhance the effectiveness and consistency of the procedures and their results , and to ensure proper follow-up action in cases of non-provision of required information or action . 
in writing . - I voted for the amendment which calls for greater transparency when signing off MEPs ' General Expenditure Allowance . 
in writing . - I support greater transparency in the Parliament and I especially welcome transparency in regard to the GEA . 
in writing . - I voted for this report and in doing so welcome the audit strategy of the Court of Auditors for the period 2009-2012 and support its priority goals ( maximising the overall impact from its audits and increasing efficiency by making best use of resources ) . 
I expect the Court of Auditors to report on the steps taken to implement this audit strategy as well as to demonstrate the progress in this direction using the Key Performance Indicators ( KPI ) , in particular with the introduction of KPI 1 to 4 in 2010 . 
I particularly welcome the plan to publish follow-ups in respect of the special reports to increase their impact . 
in writing . - In voting on this report I call on the EESC , and in particular on its Secretary-General , to cooperate fully with OLAF and to provide all necessary assistance to OLAF agents in carrying out their investigation in relation to allegations of maladministration . 
in writing . - I voted for this report giving discharge to the Committee of the Regions ( CoR ) , and I am pleased that , in our resolution , Parliament ` reconfirms its position that , in the interests of transparency , declarations of financial interests of members of all Union institutions should be accessible on the Internet via a public register ; reminds the CoR of its request that CoR members declare their financial interests , disclosing relevant information on declarable professional activities and remunerated posts or activities ; notes with satisfaction the CoR response on the matter , in particular the letter of the president of the CoR of 11 February 2011 ; [ and ] requests the CoR to follow up this issue in its Annual Activity Report ' . 
in writing . - I voted to give discharge to the European Development Funds . 
I welcome the fact that Parliament , in its report , reiterates its support for EDF budgetisation , which will strengthen the democratic control , accountability and transparency of funding and will provide more coherence in Union policy in relation to the ACP countries . 
The report refers to the Commission 's statement to the effect that it wants to propose to incorporate the EDF into the Union budget during discussions on the next financial framework , and that it will keep Parliament 's Committee on Budgetary Control fully informed of this initiative . 
It believes this measure to be long overdue , and that budgetisation of the EDF should take place at the earliest possible date . 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution on the Agency for Fundamental Rights and I support calls on the Agency to make progress in ensuring , as far as possible , a realistic evaluation of tenders . 
The resolution notes that the Court of Auditors reported on this issue in respect of the award of three framework contracts of a total amount of EUR 2 575 000 , and stresses , in particular , that in these three cases the financial offers differed considerably both in unit prices and in the tenderers ' estimates of the number of man-days necessary for implementation of the same scenario . 
in writing . - I voted to give discharge to the Joint Undertaking for ITER and the Development of Fusion Energy . 
I am of the opinion that , in view of the size of its budget and the complexity of its tasks , the Joint Undertaking should establish an audit committee , reporting directly to the Governing Board . 
in writing . - I very much regret that , during the vote on autonomous trade preferences for Pakistan , Parliament agreed to reduce the length of the benefits to one year , thus reducing significantly any gain to Pakistan . 
in writing . - I voted for this report and welcome the fact that bilateral investment treaties are now part of the common commercial policy . 
in writing . - I voted for this report on a proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on indications or marks identifying the lot to which a foodstuff belongs . 
in writing . - I voted for this report on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to units of measurement . 
in writing . - I voted for this report on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to units of measurement ( codified text ) . 
in writing . - I voted for this report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on roll-over protection structures mounted in front of the driver 's seat on narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors ( codified text ) . 
in writing . - I voted for this report for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the installation , location , operation and identification of the controls of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors ( codified text ) . 
in writing . - I voted for this report endorsing the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on braking devices of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors ( codified text ) . 
in writing . - I voted for this report for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the operating space , access to the driving position and the doors and windows of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors ( codified text ) . 
in writing . - I voted for this report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on rear-mounted roll-over protection structures of narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors ( codified text ) . 
in writing . - I voted for this report on the amended proposal for a Council directive on the structure and rates of excise duty applied to manufactured tobacco ( codified text ) . 
in writing . - I voted for this report on the proposal for a Council regulation on denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation ( codified text ) . 
in writing . - I welcome the Commission 's proposal , as it simplifies the existing regulatory framework and has the potential to encourage innovation in the textile and clothing sector , whilst allowing fibre users and consumers to benefit more readily from innovative products . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of labelling country of origin and fur and welcome this piece of legislation . 
in writing . - I strongly support the amendment of certain elements of Regulation ( EC ) No 1215/2009 in order to permit the extension of its validity to 31 December 2015 and make certain adjustments consequent to the entry into force of bilateral agreements with Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia . 
Radio frequencies serve the public interest in a wide range of areas in the Member States . 
In that connection , due account has to be taken of a host of specific national and regional characteristics . 
It is doubtful whether the EU can reconcile these matters of public interest and these characteristics as well and as efficiently as its Member States . 
For that reason ( and in the light of the allocation of competences laid down in Article 9 ( 1 ) of the Framework Directive ) , I oppose the establishment of an overarching spectrum planning and management system at European level . 
The Parliament was the first European institution to address the phenomenon of an increasing number of interest groups at European level and , especially , the consequences of this evolution for the legislative process . 
The aim of the Green Paper under consideration here is to draw conclusions from the global financial crisis triggered by the bankruptcy of the Lehman Brothers bank in autumn 2008 following the inappropriate securitisation of US subprime mortgages . 
In the light of the development of new financial instruments in a globalised world , the Green Paper takes a critical look at the soundness of financial institutions and of the financial system as a whole , and at the regulation and supervision of the system , with a view to preventing any repeat of the crisis in the future . 
The Commission regards the strengthening of corporate governance as central to its financial market reform and crisis prevention programme . 
In that connection , the Commission notes , in particular , that in the financial services sector , corporate governance must take account of the interests of other stakeholders ( depositors , savers , life insurance policy holders , etc. ) and of the stability of the financial system , owing to the systemic nature of many of the players involved 
in writing . - If Japan demonstrates a real willingness to eliminate non-tariff barriers , I believe the EU should enter into negotiations with Japan with a view to signing a free trade agreement . 
in writing . - I voted for this important report . 
In addition , 40 % of EU forests are state-owned . 
European forests can be grouped in five bioclimatic zones : the Boreal , Temperate Oceanic , Temperate Continental , Mediterranean and Mountain zones ( 5 ) , compatible with the EEA 's forest typology , developed to guide policy decisions ( 6 ) . 
in writing . - I voted for this report and take the view that , in order to be consistent with the EU 's own values , EU foreign policy and external action must give priority to promoting democracy and the rule of law , good governance and fair societies , given that a rule-based democratic society is the basis for upholding human rights as well as for enhancing stability . 
Reiterating the position that human rights need to be firmly mainstreamed into EU foreign policy , I believe that the new institutional structure of the EU , with particular reference to the EEAS and its dedicated department , offers an opportunity to enhance the EU 's coherence and effectiveness in this area ; urge the VP/HR to proactively pursue , through bilateral relations with third countries and active participation in international fora , the engagement of third countries in respecting human rights as well as to speak up against human rights abuses and not to refrain from taking adequate measures if they are violated ; considering the growing grave violations of freedom of belief , call upon the Commission to conduct a thorough evaluation and to mainstream freedom of belief into the EU human rights policy . 
in writing . - I voted for this report and particularly welcome calls for increased controls of private security companies through their regulation , licensing and monitoring . 
in writing . - I voted against paragraph 20 because I do not believe that the time is yet ripe for the EU to have a single seat on the United Nations Security Council . 
in writing . - I support the UK retaining membership of UNSC . 
Now we are back to square one , and we have lost a considerable amount of important and beneficial legislation on novel foods . 
Conciliation proceedings are most certainly a useful mechanism in the legislative process , but they become futile and pointless if participants are not prepared to negotiate and to compromise . 
If the European Parliament is trying to show that it is a powerful , responsible legislative body which is proud to have achieved the Lisbon Treaty , I think it flunked its first test . 
The Commission now has to move forward and prepare separate legislation to cover cloning . 
I only hope that MEPs will learn from their mistakes and realise that it is the people of Europe who suffer if we can not agree on these key issues . 
Young people are tomorrow 's decision makers , and it is vital that they are able to develop the competences , skills and knowledge today that will allow them actively to contribute to the growth and sustained future of the European Union over the coming years and achieve the goals set out in the EU 's growth strategy . 
In 2002 , the Barcelona European Council called for EU members to provide childcare to at least 90 % of children between the age of three years and mandatory school age by 2010 , and to at least 33 % of children under three . 
These targets signalled a labour market approach to ECEC services , based on the need identified at the time of increasing the numbers of women in work . 
While it is vital to give due attention to the link between ECEC services and equality of opportunities for women , these targets are clearly problematic , and outmoded , since they fail to take into account many of the crucial qualitative aspects of a strong early education policy . 
ECEC centres are not simply a place to ` park ' children so that women can work ; they are of utmost importance in contributing to the well-being of children and improving their future life chances 
in writing . - I support this report as it is important to recognise the valuable contribution of early childhood education and how crucial it is to achieving the EU 's 2020 strategy . 
in writing . - I voted for this report and in doing so , urge the Commission to ensure that fishing activities that fall under the Fisheries Partnership Agreement meet the same sustainability criteria as fishing activities in EU waters . 
The report , moreover , calls on Mauritanian authorities and the Commission to ensure that strict sustainability criteria are respected by all vessels exercising fishing activities in Mauritanian waters ( either from the EU , Mauritania or third countries ) . 
in writing . - I supported this resolution as I believe the specific issue of safeguarding equal treatment and fair competition on public procurement markets in the EU and in third countries urgently needs more political attention . 
in writing . - I voted against this resolution because I do not believe the EU should increase subsidies for the European fisheries sector or any other sector on the basis of a rise in oil prices . 
in writing . - I welcome the Commission review of the SBA and express support for the new proposals focused on further improving access to finance , enhancing market access and continuing debureaucratisation through strengthened governance and monitoring and through smart regulation and measures such as the SME performance review 
Joining forces to innovate so as to solve common problems in Europe means more focus , more rapid development , efficiency , including cost-efficiency , and greater creativity . 
The Innovation Union is intended not only to provide an answer to shared problems facing our societies but , at the same time , to increase Europe 's competitiveness and point to ways out of the economic crisis . 
in writing . - I support this report as it is key to the post-crisis recovery and to addressing the major challenges in society . 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution which ` considers that the problem of undeclared work needs to be tackled ; states that the domestic work sector is characterised by a high level of informality and undeclared work , that many migrant workers are employed in this sector , and that their rights are often violated ; further , considers it essential to combat precarious work in general , given that this problem affects migrant workers in particular , thus worsening their already vulnerable position ' . 
in writing . - This resolution recognises that antimicrobials , when used properly , are a useful tool to help farmers keep their livestock healthy and productive and to ensure the animals ' well-being . 
However , it also acknowledges the need for tight control and monitoring , and I was therefore able to vote for it . 
European interests are served when cultural aspects are strategically devised through cooperation and partnership : both through cultural programmes and when cultural aspects are an integral part of economic , foreign and security and development policies . 
European identity in all its diversity , as well as European values , are manifested through these cultural expressions . 
In addition , the EU has important experiences to share when it comes to overcoming conflict and building stability through shared interest and mutual understanding . 
Europe is a community of freedom , responsibilities and democratic values . 
Culture , identity , values and the EU 's position on the global stage are intertwined . 
in writing . - I voted for this report because I believe this is a good time for the Commission 's Green Paper , officially endorsing the economic and social importance of the sector , to prompt discussion on ` unlocking the potential of the cultural and creative industries ' . 
The growth of cultural and creative industries in the European Union since the 1990s has been exponential in terms of job creation and of their contribution to GDP . 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution which calls on the Council to award the title ` European Capital of Culture ' exceptionally to Sarajevo in 2014 . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , I venture to suggest that were Azerbaijan known as Azeria , as with Georgia and Armenia , European citizens ' concern for democratic standards there would be higher . 
Peaceful demonstrations in recent weeks have met with repression more common to an Arab than to a European country , from an 18-year-old regime which has slowly stifled hope of progress . 
This country 's continued participation in the European Neighbourhood Policy must be made conditional on democratic reforms rather than on its willingness to supply oil for the Nabucco pipeline . 
on behalf of the S&D Group . - Madam President , my group can see many benefits in an ambitious , comprehensive , economic trade agreement with Canada . 
However , we have four red lines . 
Firstly , on the extraction of oil sands , which damages local diversity , we insist on the EU 's right to use the Fuel Quality Directive to inhibit their use . 
I was pleased to hear what the Commissioner had to say on that matter . 
Secondly , we find it hard to imagine Parliament approving a trade deal with Canada while Canada pursues a challenge , through the WTO , on the EU 's trade ban . 
Here I can not accept the Commissioner 's point of view that we should keep the two matters separate . 
I think they are linked in the eyes of the voters , and they are linked in my eyes . 
I would certainly not vote for an agreement unless this dispute is settled before we reach the final stages of this deal . 
Thirdly , we would not be able to accept any limitation on Canada 's ability to use the TRIPS flexibilities to export cheap generic medicines to developing countries . 
This is an important source of generics for developing countries , and we should not bow to pressure from the pharmaceutical industry to make it more difficult for Canada to provide generic medicines . 
Fourthly , we can not accept a deal that does not address the different standards and preferences from local SMEs and state monopolies in Canada . 
This was a point that Mr Papastamkos was making about the difference between provincial and federal regulations . 
They must be dealt with before this agreement comes to conclusion . 
That said , if we find that the final text deals with these issues and is ambitious in reducing tariffs on EU spirits , on EU machinery , on EU automobiles and other areas , we will be happy to back such a free trade agreement . 
But we do insist that the four items I have mentioned are red lines and have to be dealt with properly in these negotiations . 
in writing . - I voted to support Sweden 's nomination of H.G. Wessberg to join the European Court . 
Mr Wessberg will replace Lars Heikensten , who left to become executive director of the Nobel Foundation . 
Mr Wessberg will take up his duties following his formal appointment by the Council of Ministers , scheduled for Friday , 10 June 2011 . 
in writing . - I was pleased to support the Swedish candidate for the Court of Auditors . 
in writing . - I voted to waive the parliamentary immunity of Ágnes Hankiss , accused of defamation . 
Ms Hankiss 's immunity was lifted because the events in question took place in 2004 , before she was elected to the European Parliament ( in July 2009 ) , and because the case does not concern her political activities as an MEP . 
in writing . - This Commission proposal simplifies the legislation in force on proving the origin of certain textile products . 
Statistics show that around one in three young Europeans has tried an illicit drug and at least one of our citizens dies every hour from a drug overdose . 
in writing . - I welcome this report , which integrates Croatia into the fight against drugs in the EU . 
in writing . - I welcome this report , which has provisions to allow a greater volume of euro cash to travel to countries which are due to adopt the euro to cope with demand . 
I supported this report because it improves the safety and training of professionals who transport euro cash . 
in writing . - I welcome the Action Plan on Global Navigation Satellite System ( GNSS ) Applications ( COM ( 2010 ) 308 ) , which aims to promote the development of downstream applications through certification , standardisation and coordination with the industry and other countries , as well as by disseminating information , raising awareness , implementing regulatory measures and increasing funding . 
in writing . - I welcome this report , which deals with developing and deploying European systems to exploit Galileo and other satellite systems and their applications in the transport domain . 
in writing . - I voted for this report which considers that comprehensive air agreements with neighbouring countries or significant global partners can deliver substantial benefits to passengers , freight operators and airlines , by means both of market access and of regulatory convergence to promote fair competition , including with regard to state subsidies and social and environmental standards , providing certain standards and conditions are met . 
in writing . - I voted for this report revising ` Eurovignette ' road haulage tax rules , which will make it possible for Member States to charge hauliers for air and noise pollution costs , in addition to motorway tolls . 
This directive will ensure that revenue from these charges is used to improve the performance of transport systems and cut pollution . 
in writing . - El Khadraoui has done a great job on this report . 
The only way that we can make progress in fighting climate change is responsible reports such as this one which hold those accountable who cause the most pollution and which is why I was able to support it . 
in writing . - I voted for this report on the basis of expert reports which say that at this moment , both Romania and Bulgaria have proved that they are sufficiently prepared to apply all the provisions of the Schengen acquis in a satisfactory manner . 
in writing . - I welcome this report which proposes to apply the provisions of the Schengen acquis relating to the Schengen Information System to Bulgaria and Romania . 
I am also pleased that the report contains safeguards for data protection . 
in writing . - FP7 is a chance for the EU to make its research policy match its economic and social ambitions , in particular , by consolidating the European Research Area ( ERA ) . 
Allocated a budget of around EUR 54 billion for the period 2007-2013 , FP7 has , over the years , become one of the largest research support programmes in the world and represents the primary tool of EU research policy . 
Four main objectives have been identified and correspond to four specific programmes that must structure the European research effort : the Cooperation Programme , the Ideas Programme , the People Programme and the Capacity Programme . 
The aim is to enable the EU to respond to the great societal challenges that concern all Member States and to which they can not respond alone ( ageing population and health , energy , water and food supplies , sustainable development , climate change , and so on ) , as well as to develop the knowledge to enable our businesses to innovate more and enhance their competitiveness . 
in writing . - I support the work done by the rapporteur in this report . 
I share his concerns that the Commission communication was delivered so much later than promised . 
The FP7 has delivered some excellent work and I am encouraged by the work done by the rapporteur to close the golden triangle . 
in writing . - I am delighted that my amendment , which ` takes note of the recent legal developments regarding the EU 's ban on seal products , in particular , Canada 's request to the WTO for the establishment of a formal dispute resolution panel , and expresses its strong hope that Canada will withdraw the WTO challenge , which runs counter to positive trade relations , prior to the need for ratification of the CETA agreement by the European Parliament ' , was carried . 
The recent financial crisis has highlighted that there are three key problems in the credit rating agencies industry : lack of competition , over-reliance on external ratings in the regulatory framework and no liability for ratings by CRAs . 
The report suggests ways of dealing with each of these problems . 
in writing . - I support this report which recognises that credit rating agencies lack accountability , competition and transparency , notably with regard to sovereign debt . 
More needs to be done at an EU and global level to ensure that reckless practices do not endanger the financial security of the EU . 
in writing . - I welcome this report . 
By setting labour standards , the EU supports opportunities for men and women to obtain decent and productive work in conditions of freedom , equality , security and dignity . 
It is clear not only from these conventions but also from the report of the World Commission on the Social Dimension of Globalisation that it is necessary to change the narrow focus on markets into a wider interest in people , i.e. focus on the protection of workers ' rights and the rule of labour law . 
in writing . - I supported this report , which precedes the Commission communication on CSR . 
I also welcome the work done by my colleague , Richard Howitt , at committee stage to produce a report that promotes the positive work that corporate social responsibility can do at European level . 
in writing . - I support this report . 
However , I believe the scale of the cuts to the lifelong learning programme and the People programme is unacceptably severe . 
in writing . - The future instrument for supplying EU development aid must be adequately equipped in financial terms . 
The EU has committed itself to the collective target of spending 0.7 % of its GNI on ODA by 2015 . 
Given the added value of Commission aid , and the Commission 's new role in coordinating the Union 's and the Member States ' development policy ( Article 210 TFEU ) , the share of ODA channelled through the EU budget should remain at least stable . 
The annual figures for the new development cooperation instrument in the next MFF period should significantly increase in real terms . 
in writing . - I support this report , which draws on the instrument 's performance , scrutiny and promoting better use of development money in the future . 
in writing . - I welcome S&D amendments to this report at committee stage representing greater transparency in the legislative process and promoting greater ease of access for SMEs and NGOs through the publication of road maps and an extended consultation period . 
in writing . - I voted against this report . 
in writing . - I am disappointed that this report has passed through Parliament . 
I was unable to support it because , as a response to a Commission Green Paper , it ruled out far too many options for the future of an EU contract law and neglected a duty to request an impact assessment on the full costs and implications of each of the Commission 's options . 
in writing . - I welcome this report which stresses that GDP is an indicator of economic market activity that has become a standard benchmark used by policy makers throughout the world ; emphasises that GDP is a measure of production and does not measure environmental sustainability , resource efficiency , social inclusion and social progress in general ; underlines furthermore that it can be misleading in the sense that remedial measures following certain incidents such as accidents and natural disasters are treated as a benefit instead of a cost ; notes that besides measuring economic development and productivity , there are other indicators that influence and explain the living standards in a country and that have not been quantified until now , although relevant indicators exist ; stresses the need to develop additional indicators for measuring the full impact of economic activity . 
in writing . - I support this report , which recommends several concrete actions , including the creation of an environmental index , more timely publication of environmental and social data , more accurate reporting on social disparities and extending the system of national accounts to include environmental and social issues . 
in writing . - The main challenge for the international activities of the GNSS Programmes will be to ensure the compatibility and interoperability with Galileo , to access global GNSS-related resources and set worldwide standards , to ensure security of the space segment and network of ground stations , while ensuring a stricter control of sensitive GNSS technologies developed with European funding , and to join in an international effort to develop innovative applications and specialised applications of supra-regional interest . 
An important objective will be to create market opportunities for the European GNSS technology and applications industries . 
The report was adopted in committee by an overwhelming majority ( 44 to 4 ) . 
in writing . - I voted with a heavy heart against this resolution . 
While believing that good value can be obtained when 27 Member States pool their resources , I could not vote for a 5 % increase in the EU budget beyond 2013 when we have not thoroughly examined existing expenditure with a view to eliminating waste and duplication . 
The EU budget beyond 2013 must prioritise growth and job creation . 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution which calls on both sides in Sudan , in the run-up to independence day on 9 July 2011 , to present concrete plans on the setting-up and/or reform of their institutions in order for the two states to be viable as of that date . 
It also calls for the EU delegations in Sudan and South Sudan proactively to circulate and implement the recommendations of the recent EU election and referendum observation missions . 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution which reaffirms the urgent need for Russia to implement fundamental principles of democracy , the rule of law , human rights and media freedom as a basis for cooperation , and calls on Russia to take concrete action to improve its human rights record and to protect journalists , human rights activists , minorities and opposition representatives from violence and intimidation . 
in writing . - I voted for this resolution which urges the Commission to speed up its activities with regard to revising and improving the directive and other relevant legislation so as to put an end to the misleading practices of business directory companies as soon as possible , notably by specifically blacklisting misleading practices by business directories 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , I think the world-renowned Scottish poet Rabbie Burns might have described this report as a bit of a ` cow ` rin , tim ` rous beastie ' in its original form . 
Thankfully , through the good work that Albert Dess and all the other shadow rapporteurs have put in over the last months of negotiations , we now have a report that has some real substance and one that has many areas that we can support . 
I believe , however , that it falls short in one important area , in that it fails to answer the fundamental question asked by our taxpayers and our consumers who pay for the common agricultural policy : what are the direct decoupled payments for ? 
That is a fundamental question that we all need to face up to . 
There is no longer any linkage with food production because they are decoupled . 
There is a link to public goods through cross-compliance , but I do not think this fundamentally answers that question . 
I believe that the report should perhaps have gone a little further in responding to that question by backing the idea of a more targeted direct payment , containing a major incentive to develop a more sustainable and competitive model of agriculture , and giving the possibility of a targeting of payments at LFA areas - the so-called greening of the direct payments , which I believe the Commissioner is very much favour of . 
If we move down that road , I believe it gives us the ability to respond to that question and explain to the public exactly what direct payments are for . 
It also negates the call for caps and ceilings to be put on aids because , if there are public goods attached to the direct payments across all the direct payments , then the bigger the farmer , the more public goods that farmer will deliver . 
So there is no need to cap them . 
I believe that the report hints at that direction and I welcome the move towards that type of model . 
I hope we can improve the report tomorrow . 
If we do so , our group will certainly be happy to support it . 
Madam President , few reports have been the subject of such intensive lobbying by the industry concerned and I think this is always instructive . 
I have been part of a minority - but a substantial minority - in the Liberal Group in welcoming this report , although I feel that the criticisms of the Commission in paragraphs 3 and 4 are perhaps unjustifiably harsh . 
The absence of a free market in pharmaceutical products is regrettable . 
I suspect that the cost of moving to a free market would be much lower than we imagine but , of course , once the psychology of restricted markets has taken hold it is hard to get over that . 
But if we need a free market we also need normal patent procedures . 
Why can not we allow , as they do in the United States , companies producing generic medicines to begin their development work in advance of the expiry of patents ? 
In the United States they see the generic medicine sector as an important job creator . 
This report calls for the opening of that sector . 
All of these would lead to a safer , healthier society with more sustainable medicinal practices and a pharmaceutical industry better geared to meet the challenges of the future . 
Mr President , I know that Commissioner Flynn shares with us the regret that we do not have total competence in all matters concerned with drugs . 
The fact that law and order sits within the third pillar is regrettable . 
Therefore , this common position is a good first step . 
Mr Burtone has made a sympathetic report and , on the whole , we ought to support this . 
My view is that national countries must decide on their own drugs policy . 
Indeed , if we look at my own country , in Scotland and England there are two separate drugs policies . 
It is up to this new committee which has been set up with members from national governments , which Commissioner Flynn no doubt will be chairing , to produce proper comparisons of what is taking place in each country , to look at what methods are being used to help drug addicts , to educate drug addicts , to get the drugs problem solved and then to come to the Community , to this Parliament , with a recommendation of what needs to be done . 
That is its value . 
Therefore , in supporting this debate and what Mr Burtone has put forward , I ask the Commission to come back to this Parliament and to make specific recommendations on the basis of the committee 's work and on the basis of what the Drugs Monitoring Centre is recommending . 
While I agree with Mr Tomlinson that we have seen an enormous improvement in the whole attempt by the Commission to get its house in order in all these matters , nevertheless it did not fulfil all the requests for information in certain headings . 
There is room for improvement . 
So what are they worth ? 
It is a very unsatisfactory situation . 
I will have to explain that to my group at tonight 's meeting . 
I am very critical of the Member States . 
But I would quite like to hear about that . 
Mr President , I welcome the representatives from Ukraine to whom all our hearts go out . 
Could I ask everyone a question who may be listening to this : will the next nuclear disaster following Chernobyl be in Chernobyl ? 
That is a chilling but a real question . 
Poor Ukraine - they have been told that they have not lost 125 , 000 people but that they have only lost a few hundred people . 
Yet as my colleague here said , the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is going to spend our money on two other reactors as a price for the agreement of closure . 
With the lack of proper arrangements in many other reactors - because Chernobyl was only the fifth worst - we are going to have another disaster and the EU will have a great deal of responsibility . 
We must decide that the time for talking has really ended and really put our hands in our pockets and give the money that is necessary to clean up this situation . 
We know that Ukraine is heavily dependent on this type of energy , so we have to face up to this . 
We know the cost of nuclear decommissioning and we should take a hard look at nuclear energy . 
I happen to belong to an anti-nuclear party , I am President of it in Scotland . 
Sweden was the most heavily nuclear-dependent country , and yet they have taken a different attitude . 
Perhaps we have to look at the whole question of our energy policy . 
If we do not know how to destroy the monster we create , have we any right to create any more monsters ? 
That is really the question . 
Sitting up there are brave people who have come to see us today and I hope I have the chance to meet them . 
We have to pledge our solidarity , not just with words , but with finance . 
Terrorism stops the peace process and I believe that some people have a lot to answer for at the present time , namely Hamas and Hizbollah . 
Of course Syria is involved , and , of course , Syria must be a key player in the eventual solution . 
We as a Community must act together and I am delighted to hear the President-inOffice say that the Troika is currently looking at the situation . 
I hope that just looking at the situation actually produces some results , because we must get a solution ! 
We must get up a little bit earlier , as President Clinton has advised us . 
But we must also understand the Israeli response to the current situation . 
I am convinced , having been to Israel a couple of times recently , that they seek and desire peace . 
In the negotiations and in the agreement they have already given up a lot . 
I do not myself feel inclined , therefore , to condemn outright the Israeli response to what is happening at the present time . 
When they were under attack , when their citizens were being killed , it was not easy for them . 
We must look at the whole situation . 
There is one government in the Middle East which is guilty of crimes within its own country as well as within the Middle East generally and that , of course , is Iran . 
Mr President , our group is under the same understanding as Mrs Green . 
That should take place now and that should have precedence over the items on the agenda which , it was generally understood , would follow after this one-hour debate . 
Thank you , Commissioner , for being here tonight because I know you have had a very hard day and you have met many groups in Parliament . 
I hope you have had a good dinner . 
It is important we recognize this as a European problem . 
The Dutch have entered into a slaughtering system for which , I understand , there is going to be Community money available . 
The UK is proposing a slaughter policy which will require some European money . 
Is it your intention as Commissioner to develop a European policy to eliminate BSE throughout the Community ? 
Because we should all recognize that there are other countries in the Community that have BSE and for some countries there is no apparent reason for this BSE . 
I am thinking particularly of a country in the south of Europe which has had over 30 cases which are completely unconnected to the British problem . 
I hope , therefore , that you can clarify that position . 
You might also say something about pharmaceutical products , because of the provisions which allow pharmaceutical products to continue to be traded within the European Community that contain gelatine . 
Mr President , I am grateful to the Commissioner for his reminder that the UK government has not yet put any proposals on the table . 
But does the Commissioner recognize that the problem in the United Kingdom and the public reaction to what is happening on the continent is such that it threatens to spill over into wider areas of policy and to sour the whole spectrum of relations between London and Brussels ? 
How does he intend to tackle this ? 
Would he consider , as a way of moving things forward , a partial lifting of the ban , perhaps by lifting the ban on thoroughbred animals , those which we can prove have been fed organically , raised organically and have no history of BSE , such as the Dexter herd , as a way of seeking a compromise and starting to move the debate forward ? 
Mr President , following on from Mr Macartney 's comments , I would like to report that Mr Forsyth , while refusing to fly the European flag from public buildings in Scotland , has a party of Scottish Office officials visiting this Parliament to learn more about the European Union and the workings of Parliament . 
I suspect he has sent these officials over here to fly the flag . 
I would like to congratulate the Commissioner on his fine suntan , no doubt from the Italian sun . 
I hope he will continue his valiant efforts to make sure that the sun can once again shine on the United Kingdom 's meat industry . 
The World Health Organization says that gelatine and tallow are safe . 
Your inspection teams have reached similar conclusions but we have a capacity problem in the United Kingdom . 
Our renderers can not process the animals for slaughter because a tallow lake has grown up as a result of the export ban . 
In my constituency there is over 10 , 000 gallons of tallow waiting to be moved from renderers . 
I would just like to inform the House that in the part of Scotland I represent the local authorities of North Ayrshire , Renfrewshire , East Renfrewshire , Clydebank and Dunbarton and East Dunbarton are proudly celebrating today , Europe Day . 
Madam President , today we can coin a new slogan : New Labour , New Unemployment . 
I enjoyed Mr Simpson 's speech enormously . 
I regret however , that at no time did he give any consideration to the consumer or the user of the service . 
Perhaps he could put my mind at rest that Socialists are not frightened of competition or the introduction of new technologies . 
I welcome the Commission proposal and am against the Socialist position as it is perceived today , namely blatant protectionism . 
I have some difficulty with the position in Holland and Sweden as they have gone furthest down the road to liberalization . 
The UK position is that we welcome the Commission proposal with a limited introduction of competition and would like to consider new technologies . 
I invite the rapporteur and members of the Socialist Group to be bold and to welcome a limited degree of competition . 
I would like to see maintenance of the universal service which is especially important to the delivery of post in remote rural areas . 
Also , there will continue to be a limited area in reserve . 
This should be reviewed in 1998 as envisaged in the directive but we should not have any preconceived ideas at this stage about the nature and extent of further liberalization . 
I invite the rapporteur to put the interests of the consumer and the user of the service first . 
I commend the proposal to the House and I beg its support for my Amendments Nos 73 and 74 . 
Mr President , it is a sad fact that whatever continent one looks at there seems to be civil war and genocide with its appalling consequences . 
Half the world seems intent on destroying itself while the other half bears the costs of trying to bring about reconciliation and reconstruction . 
The reality is that we spend billions of ecu each year just keeping people alive . 
Help has to be given to rebuild not just their physical requirements but also their institutional organizations to give them the ability to run their countries . 
That is why I welcome this Council regulation on rehabilitation and reconstruction and I congratulate Mrs Baldi and Mr Andrews on the work they have done in the Committee on Development and Cooperation . 
The scale of the task is enormous and must be tackled step by step , namely food security , shelter , structural institutions and employment . 
I must pay tribute to the NGOs on the ground without whose dedication very little would be accomplished . 
The NGOs ' workers often live in appalling conditions in fear of their lives , and yet by their work in the medical and social fields they are responsible for saving millions of lives . 
Any programme of reconstruction needs close cooperation between donor and recipient states . 
While it is natural that tenders and the awarding of contracts should be open to Member States and recipient countries , regional cooperation between developing nations is also vital . 
If neighbouring countries can provide services or supplies this should be encouraged as it would bring further stability to the regions . 
All this work will need careful planning and adoption followed by constant monitoring and naturally the Committee on Development and Cooperation feels its members should be closely involved . 
It is also important that , where possible , local partners should invest a financial contribution so that there is sustainability for the project after Community funding has ceased . 
If a project can not be sustained without continual funding it should only be supported if it has humanitarian benefits such as food security . 
This whole programme must be treated as a matter of utmost importance and urgency for the restoration of basic social facilities for millions of people in dozens of countries . 
We trust and hope that action will be taken soon . 
Mr President , we all want to strengthen our links with Morocco . 
We admire the courage and energy of our many Moroccan friends , including the Moroccan MPs who are with us yet again in Parliament , with whom we have a very active dialogue . 
If Morocco had spent a fraction of the time it has spent on lobbying the European Parliament on cooperating with the peace process in the Western Sahara , the conflict and suffering would have ended many years ago . 
I should like to congratulate Mr von Habsburg , our colleague who describes Morocco as a plural democracy . 
He has again shown he is a good friend of the King of Morocco and , unfortunately , an apologist for the illegal occupation of the Western Sahara by Morocco . 
This Parliament has consistently deplored that illegal occupation which has resulted in loss of life , political prisoners , torture and suffering for some of the most vulnerable people in the world for far too long . 
In seeking closer links with Morocco for our mutual benefit , this Parliament is entitled to expect Morocco to show respect for international law , for human rights and for self-determination for the people of the Western Sahara . 
I trust that Parliament , the European Union and the Moroccan Government will not abandon the people of the Western Sahara who have suffered so much for so long and that we will use all our efforts and responsibilities to support the people of the Western Sahara in their search for freedom and self-determination . 
Madam President , the European People 's Party welcomes the action programme from the Commission and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Commission for its initiative and to congratulate our own rapporteur , Mr Parodi , on his report . 
In relation to sea transport , I would like to draw my colleagues ' attention to the request that we take positive measures to promote the European fleet , including the setting up of the Euros register . 
I would also urge that the action programme take in those measures to enhance ferry safety , allowing landbased infrastructures for satellite systems enabling a rapid response when vessels run into difficulty . 
This would enable vessels to enter a harbour to find a safe haven and would strengthen port-state and flag-state control and the designation , where appropriate , of sensitive areas . 
In the field of railways , we would like to see a better development of the European railways . 
We call specifically for the railway market to be opened up to new , private railway companies , thereby enhancing consumer choice . 
Turning to safety and the fitting of seat belts , we would emphasize especially the importance of fitting threepoint seat belts on coaches and buses , as well as roll-over bars on coaches and mini-buses . 
In the field of air transport , it is particularly important to have a unified system of air traffic control . 
We should bring to an end state aids to airlines and particularly call on Commissioner Van Miert to insist on the one-time , last-time principle being applied to state aids in the airline industry . 
In paragraph 56 , we believe that the rapporteur meant to push for an external relations policy for air transport and I hope that he can support our amendment along those lines . 
As other speakers have mentioned , we support the TENs enabling a greater use of public and private partnerships and an imaginative approach to financing such schemes . 
On a personal note , could I conclude by saying the Commission 's proposals reflect in my view what is already happening in the United Kingdom in the provision of transport services by road , rail , air and sea , as well as combined transport . 
I hope the House will join me in agreeing that Britain is leading the way in Europe , not least in ensuring a level playing field with the removal of state aids but also the fitting of seat belts in coaches and mini-buses and safety at sea . 
We in the European People 's Party commend the report to the House , we congratulate the rapporteur and thank the Commission for this initiative . 
Mr President , Lord Plumb is an able advocate - nobody denies that . 
He told us movingly about the work going on in the UK to deal with BSE . 
Sadly he omitted to tell us how the mess was caused in the first place . 
He did not tell us who was responsible , who had been reckless with consumer interests and who had been reckless with the health interests of the population in the last fifteen years . 
However , not even Lord Plumb 's advocacy - Mr de Vries will be very happy to hear this - can save the British Conservative Party from their own fate at the hands of the political equivalent of BSE . 
Only a programme of electoral culling can do that . 
It is more than two and a half months since the British Minister told the House of Commons of the possible link between BSE and CJD . 
Ten weeks later it is only this week that we have received a plan to deal with the problem . 
Incredibly , in spite of all the warnings , from here among other places , the Government had no contingency plan when the Minister made the statement in the House of Commons . 
Now we have two ministers touring the capitals on what they call a charm offensive . 
They do not include Lord Plumb because he is far too committed a European for that . 
But two ministers - I am not sure , incidentally , which one is charm and which one is offensive - are touring the European capitals . 
In this Parliament we need to reorientate the debate to concentrate on public health , to recognize that there are still mysteries surrounding this disease . 
Far too much of this debate and far too many of these concerns have been hidden behind a shroud of secrecy in the Council and elsewhere . 
Mr President , I should like to thank Mr Sindal for his work in highlighting this neglected sector . 
We are always worried about job creation and here is an area where we could really stimulate enormous job potential . 
Previous speakers have mentioned the aid to stop congestion on the roads which is horrendous and costly in every way , and also that this is an environmentally friendly kind of procedure . 
European funds would be well spent if we could encourage further action of this kind and it has to be encouraged because the political will seems to be lacking on the part of our governments . 
There are 90 islands in my constituency and many have ferry connections . 
But we no longer have direct links , as we used to have in Scotland , with the Low Countries , Scandinavia and the Hanseatic ports . 
We could so easily have those links and it would help everybody . 
If ever we were looking for ways to assist job creation , this would be an area that we should be considering . 
Mr President , it is now four years since the Commission published its original proposal for the introduction of a Community-wide CO2 energy tax . 
At the time it was seen as an essential part of the Community 's efforts to meet international targets which , after all , they had agreed at Rio . 
In spite of that agreement , four years on the proposal still stands blocked by the very Council whose members agreed these original targets . 
As the Commissioner has said , earlier this year in February the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection had a public hearing during which a series of distinguished speakers told us of the dramatic effect climate change might have . 
Drought , storm damage , floods would become more likely and medium and long-term insurance costs are therefore likely to become considerable burdens on industry and consequently on job creation . 
The Council seems to have forgotten that sustainable jobs depend on a sustainable environment . 
Short-term thinking in both industry and governments has meant that Council is still unwilling to take any action . 
The latest ridiculous example of this was the slashing of the SAVE II programme . 
Have these people never heard of the precautionary principle ? 
Do they not take advice from their own scientists ? 
Do they not realise that they are prejudicing the well-being and even the livelihood of European citizens ? 
The lessons from last week 's Rome Conference in which the Commissioner , the Italian President-in-Office and myself took part are there to be learned . 
In spite of increased unemployment , the fact is that taxation on labour has more than doubled in the last thirty years but taxation on resource-use has remained steady at only 10 % . 
It is time we embraced the economic model advanced in Chapter 10 of the Delors White Paper and altered that balance . 
As far as we are concerned , the Commission must redouble its efforts to persuade Member States that the creation of employment and the protection of the environment go hand in hand . 
Both demand a credible and active policy to reduce CO2 emissions through a combination of incentive , regulation and progressive taxation . 
That policy is needed sooner rather than later . 
I hope , therefore , that when the conference of parties to the Convention on Climate Change meets in July , they will not simply add to the greenhouse effect by generating even more hot air . 
We have had quite enough of that . 
It is the role of the Community to persuade its Member States to take action and I hope the Commission will take that job seriously and persuade all Member States to cooperate fully in producing that action . 
Mr President , thankfully we live in a Community where the weapons of war these days are economic rather than military . 
It is important that we seize the opportunity to get our economies together to prevent future conflict . 
It is a bit like the difference between nuclear fusion and nuclear fission . 
We all know that nuclear fission is an inherently dangerous process , as indeed is a fission in our economies . 
But if we were able to achieve the economic equivalent of nuclear fusion and fuse our economies together , we all know that the benefits would be great and that we would produce a lot of economic energy through a growth in trade on our continent and a lot more jobs , which is so important . 
I belong to a tradition of a party in Great Britain which has always believed in the United Kingdom 's full participation in economic and monetary union . 
Indeed , one of the more eminent members of my party , Mr Roy Jenkins , in his time as President of the Commission , was one of the main proponents of currencies coming together . 
I am proud to be in that tradition , to stand against the prevailing government policy and sentiment in my country . 
Mr von Wogau said that perhaps it would be better if the UK did not join a single currency . 
I beg to disagree with him . 
I am arguing very strongly in my country that we should join a single currency . 
It is important for us irrespective of its importance to the European Union as a whole . 
On Black Wednesday in September 1992 we saw the immense damage that can be done by great devaluations of currency . 
In his report , Mr Pérez Royo talks about the growth in Italian competitiveness through the short-term devaluation . 
One can also look at the growth in UK competitiveness and the damage it did to the French and Belgian economies . 
I do not agree with him that we need a tax on currency speculation but certainly we need to avoid this kind of movement . 
Finally , I am arguing in my country that the logical consequence of an opt-out from the single currency is a lockout from the single market . 
Countries can not co-exist in a single market with partners who reserve the right to indulge in competitive devaluations to gain short-term advantage over their neighbours . 
If we live in a union it is a union where solidarity in these matters must prevail . 
Mr President , I welcome the Commissioner . 
It is going to be a pleasant change to hear her views rather than read about them in the Financial Times and the other press . 
Fishing in the Communities is a very volatile , very political matter at the moment . 
We have too many fishermen chasing too few fish . 
Everyone accepts that . 
I think it is symptomatic of open competition , which is compounded by the increasing efficiency of our fishing vessels and particularly the gear . 
Indeed when I was at school we were told that the United Kingdom was a lump of coal surrounded by a teeming sea of fish . 
There is very little coal left in the United Kingdom and if we go on using the gear we are using now then there will be very little fish either . 
The Union has got to call a halt to this . 
We are , at the moment , in a crisis in the fishing industry in Europe and particularly in the UK where the fishing fleet is the third largest within the European Union . 
The government is again preaching the virtues of deregulation . 
We have seen in the last few weeks the effects of deregulation on the agriculture industry . 
We do not want to transfer the bad practices of BSE into the fishing industry by deregulating everything and believing it is the way ahead . 
In an attempt to reduce the number of vessels by the doctrine of laisser faire economics the United Kingdom Government has left the fishing industry in Britain suffering at the hands of market forces . 
This is not conducive to promotion of conservation of fish stocks or to security of jobs of local fishermen , or to the livelihood and the thriving of local communities . 
It is no wonder , therefore , that local communities which are totally dependent on fishing for their livelihood view the United Kingdom Government and others with suspicion . 
Indeed the same government which is crying out about quota-hopping is the government which , at the moment , to popularize its own party is parading its xenophobia and has started blocking European institutions . 
We need action on quota-hopping but we must disassociate ourselves from the nationalistic sentiments surrounding it . 
There is a solution to the problem of quota hopping : there should be some recognition and licensing done by the Member States , to ensure some control of the quota-hoppers . 
The three multi-annual guidance programmes have all failed to allow Member States to reduce their fishing fleets . 
We have to come forward with proper methods of conservation and proper methods of supervision . 
Mr President , there is no doubt in my mind , nor I am sure in colleagues ' or the Commissioner 's minds , that there is a crisis of confidence in the fishing industry at the present time . 
In my own country some in the fishing industry are calling for the scrapping of the common fisheries policy . 
They conveniently forget what it was like before the common fisheries policy was introduced in 1983 and that at that time there were many international agreements . 
Fortunately we now have a policy but we all recognize that it needs to be adapted because it is not working properly . 
The 40 % reduction which is being proposed at the present time may be a suggestion which is not properly understood . 
People do not understand either that there are fewer and fewer fish in the sea . 
But I would suggest that we must work with the fishing industry and make sure that it fully understands the problems . 
I welcome the fact that the Commissioner has gone round many of the ports in the Community discussing the issues with the fishermen . 
She has raised her own profile and that of the Commission regarding fisheries and that is to be welcomed . 
I hope we can look at and address properly the issue of quota hoppers . 
If we are going to have confidence in the industry we can not allow quota that is allocated to one country to be fished by another country . 
That is the major issue we must face . 
There are many problems we must solve and I hope we can work with the Commissioner to get the right messages across . 
I am grateful for that information from the Commissioner that this is being discussed because this strikes me as a blatant example of predatory pricing which clearly breaches the spirit of the GATT negotiations . 
If the allegations contained in the magazine , Personal Computer World , are true - they are certainly reported very bravely in view of the possible loss of advertising - they suggest that this practice is more wide-spread than it should be . 
Indeed it is possible that this is not the only case of predatory pricing by this particular company . 
I do not believe that there is any way in which we can prevent what is a very good product being the standard for office software in Europe . 
All attempts to promote alternatives to it from Europe will probably be a waste of money because it is a very good product and very successful with consumers . 
But pressure , adverse publicity and perhaps financial penalties for predatory pricing are more likely to be successful . 
Any assurance that you can give the House that action could be taken if this is discovered to be true would be gratefully received . 
Commissioner , I must say that I tend to take Mr Holm 's line and I am glad that he has tabled the question , because it is the inconsistency of Community expenditure that worries many of us in this House . 
When I last looked at this issue , I discovered that 80 % of the value of the product is in fact Community subsidy to tobacco growers - 80 % - and that is not very helpful . 
The annual payment that some of the tobacco growers get is , in fact , more than the value of the land that tobacco is grown on . 
So , again , there is a huge inconsistency in what the Commission is trying to achieve . 
I tend to agree with alternative production , but some of these growers are very small growers indeed . 
Therefore , Commissioner , I would like to suggest to you that what we should do to try and get consistency in Community expenditure is , in fact , to decouple the payment from the product . 
Mr President , I too extend my congratulations to the rapporteur , especially for the compromise text that she has produced , with which I find myself overwhelmingly in agreement . 
As colleagues are aware - particularly those who follow football and other sporting events where public disorder is very much the order of the day - it is important that the text should read correctly in all languages . 
I would like your assurance that tonight the services will take this on board and that Article 10 ( 3 ) will now read ` public interest ' , and not ` public order ' . 
Madam President , in relation to Amendment No 25 to Article 10 ( 4 ) , there has been a specific request that the words used are ` public interest ' , not ` public order ' . 
The words ` public order ' have no meaning in this context in English . 
Could you please confirm that this will be translated as ` public interest ' ? 
Mr President , I have asked for the floor because I seek guidance from the President-in-Office of the Council . 
Parliament will recall and the record shows that during the last Question Time to the Council I asked a series of questions regarding the Turkish financial cooperation agreement with the European Community . 
I will not summarize these just now because that would take up time from other people 's questions . 
The President-in-Office said then that he would return this Question Time and give me the answers which I sought last session but which he was unable to provide at that time . 
Does the presidency recognize that this House has a socialist majority purely because of the operation of the United Kingdom 's electoral system ? 
The United Kingdom Labour Party took only 45 % of the vote but has 75 % of the United Kingdom 's seats here . 
Now a common electoral system as specified in the Treaty of Rome , under proportional representation , would not only end this disgraceful state of affairs , it would also add to pressure for reform of the United Kingdom 's domestic voting system so that Europe would no longer have to suffer British governments elected by only 40 % of those who vote in UK national elections and which are so clearly unrepresentative of Britain when it comes to matters European . 
Would the presidency not therefore ensure that this item stays on the agenda of the IGC until we get a resolution ? 
I appreciate the President-in-Office of the Council 's answers and particularly the reply to Mr Elliott . 
It shows that he is not accepting this imposition of Stalinist/Liberal views across the whole of Europe . 
I appreciate that entirely . 
It is a queer view for Liberals to adopt in these circumstances . 
Does he think , for example , the PR system which operates in Germany and has produced over one million spoilt ballot papers thus defranchising one million people is ridiculous ? 
Does he think that the PR system in France which has resulted in two million spoilt ballot papers is a bit ridiculous ? 
Or does he think that the system in his own country , Italy , which has produced over seven million spoilt ballot papers - almost the population of London - is a bit ridiculous ? 
That is what Mr Watson and his ilk are trying to impose upon the rest of us . 
The United Kingdom has a clear record of the lowest number of spoilt ballot papers when people go to vote . 
They understand the system . 
They know what they are voting for . 
I should like to thank the President-in-Office for his reply . 
I should really like to have it in English so it would be available for outside information . 
However it really does not deal with the problem because what we are asking is what action can the Council take to prevent discrimination against such publications . 
At present too few publications with limited circulation are handled by large media distribution companies and if we allow those that are available to vanish from the shelves it will be a sad state of affairs . 
Therefore , I share the President-in-Office 's views on these matters . 
The reality is that mergers and acquisitions are putting enormous power in the hands of distributors and newspaper publishers which means that these two cartels working together can shift magazines and newspapers off the shelves at a whim . 
So we are asking what action can the Council take in these matters ? 
Mr President , I understand that you are refusing me the right to ask a supplementary question to the Council on the basis of the question tabled by Mr Lomas because I previously asked a supplementary question to another question to the Council . 
There is nothing in the Rules which prohibits this . 
This decision is based on an interpretation of what is written there by the staff sitting on your left-hand side . 
Mr President , that is wrong . 
Therefore , I ask you to refer this matter to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure , the Verification of Credentials and Immunities , because what you are saying is that it is acceptable for Members to come here and ask their own particular questions and then leave whilst the rest of us - who have an interest in a variety of subjects - are denied the right to ask a supplementary question which is of interest to the Member who asked the question in the first place . 
I just wish the House to know that I will remain here for this particular purpose . 
By your absurd ruling based on the absurd advice you received from the staff next to you - nice persons though they are - you have denied representatives of this House the opportunity to ask a second supplementary question . 
I hope that has been entered in the record . 
Mr President , I represent half a million citizens in the southwest of England . 
Rarely have we followed a European Council meeting with such interest as we did the Florence Summit . 
I must congratulate the summiteers on the agreement on BSE . 
We are not yet out of the mire but the eradication plan agreed in Florence is , nonetheless , a cause of relief for the cattle heartland of Great Britain . 
However , I deeply regret the abject failure of European leaders to agree action to create jobs . 
It is important to sort out the structural problems in our economies but this will take time . 
It is no less important to act now to gain the benefits identified in the Cecchini and Delors reports of creating jobs through the dynamics of European economic integration . 
This week has seen some 1 , 400 jobs lost in the footwear industry in England to low-cost producers overseas . 
On top of the BSE crisis , the mood in my constituency is one of near despair and this pattern is being repeated in rural areas across Europe . 
President Santer described the challenge of unemployment as a question of the credibility of the Council itself . 
Mr President , I too would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on these reports . 
They are very helpful contributions to the very important debate we are having about small businesses . 
As we know , the latter are so important in the generation of wealth and employment in our Union . 
The schemes which have been put in place by the European Investment Bank have been extremely good . 
Certainly in my country the way these have been operated through some of the commercial banks have been very helpful to small companies . 
I would like to see the European Investment Bank investigating a little more closely how they are actually put into operation . 
I have had complaints from businesses in my constituency of commercial banks requiring the businesses to move their accounts to those banks before money can be paid out under the schemes . 
If that is the case it is a deplorable situation and it would be good to see it investigated . 
The work that is being done on capital markets is most important . 
The biggest problem that small businesses face across the Union is access to capital . 
But perhaps the most important and most immediate of all these reports is that on late payments of debt . 
In my country we know that the total trade debt owed to private business is now of the order of # 46bn , that the total overdue debt owed to private business is now of the order of # 20bn . 
These figures are ones which are clearly not helping small businesses and these reports can only be helpful in achieving a satisfactory solution . 
Mr President , Parliament may remember that I tried to get an exemption for whisky bonds - almost all of which are in fields away from residences , though there are some older , smaller ones nearer residences - but I was not successful . 
I have never really been able to regard whisky as a dangerous chemical . 
Perhaps I am a little prejudiced , representing as I do almost all the Scotch whisky in the world . 
But I am happy to say there is an exemption for part of the procedural arrangements . 
There is nothing more secure than a whisky bond for the reason that it is guarded by the police because of the tax value of the whisky in the bond . 
It is a bit like going to Fort Knox to go to visit a whisky bond . 
So I am happy that there has been at least part exemption . 
Mr President , I welcome the Commission proposal which attempts to introduce a degree of liberalization and competition in groundhandling services in airports from 1998 . 
Regrettably , the common position dilutes the whole basis of the Commission proposal , seriously delaying the introduction of liberalization and competition . 
I would like to place on record the position as it exists today in the United Kingdom , where liberalization and competition exist in groundhandling services at airports and where airlines are allowed to self-handle . 
Why should British travellers not be allowed the same standard of service when travelling in France , Germany , Italy , Greece and Spain as is currently available in the UK ? 
I find myself in an extremely uncomfortable position since , in spite of all the work undertaken by the Commission , the Committee on Transport and Tourism ( notably our rapporteur , Mr Seal ) , the airlines , the airports and all interested parties , the common position fails miserably to achieve the objectives of the original Commission proposal . 
I fear personally that Articles 85 and 86 of the Treaty would achieve more in the way of opening up groundhandling services at European airports to competition , defeating national monopolies and ending the privileged and protected position enjoyed by many of Europe 's flight carriers . 
I want the best for Europe 's travellers , an excellent service at a reasonable price . 
Currently , travellers have poor service at a high cost . 
We must give the travellers choice and introduce competition . 
I want each and every one of us to stand up and be counted and to vote for competition , choice and lower prices . 
Mr President , I have followed this matter since March of this year . 
Clearly we must have tight controls on the export of meat and meat products from the UK . 
Clearly it is likely that some would have been in transit at the time of the ban , perhaps to third countries , and may have escaped those controls . 
I am pleased that the Commission has asked the anti-fraud unit to investigate any cases of fraudulent trading . 
But on the overall issue and the question of the cover-up , we need to take a wider view . 
This issue in a sense has been the United Kingdom 's Chernobyl . 
You said , Mr President , that we must not get carried away with emotion . 
I realize that the Commission recognizes , firstly , that the current balance in this House is skewed by the operation of the electoral system in just one Member State , so that we do not reflect here the will of the people of Europe when they vote . 
I am sure that the Commission also recognizes that we may well go into the next European election with 15 Member States and 16 different electoral systems . 
I am grateful to the Commissioner for his assurance that he recognizes the de Gucht report as Parliament having exercised its initiative . 
Will the Commission , as guardian of the Treaties , consider taking action against the Council for its failure to act on this matter ? 
After all , given that the final discussions , between the Commission and the Scottish Office were in November 1995 and they were perfectly satisfied with the scheme , and as I understand the Welsh Office are also satisfied with the Swansea scheme , would the Commission be in favour of allowing those schemes where there has been agreement between the local authorities and the civil servants to go ahead ? 
Scotland and Wales should not be dragging behind because in certain areas of England there have been problems between the UK Government and the Commission . 
Would the Commission treat this matter with some urgency , given that Parliament did increase the amount of money for Community initiatives at a recent plenary session in Brussels . 
I speak also for my group and I am proud to do so . 
I would just like to say that - and I do not think the Irish presidency needs to be reminded - there are 40 languages , 40 minority cultures in our Union , and all of them hope that Europe will deepen their identity too . 
But they often need a helping hand with funding . 
The Committee of the Regions which was not mentioned - you could not mention everything in your basketful of dreams - has a very important part to play . 
On reading your priorities I found myself almost in tears because I know this was drafted before the troubles reemerged . 
A peaceful Europe . 
There is not much sign of peace in the north part of the island of Ireland . 
I have to say something which is perhaps a little drastic . 
Yesterday Mr Crowley , speaking from the heart , said this part of the European Union is now ungovernable . 
That is indeed the position . 
In view of precedents in the Middle East and South Africa where the coming together of people has been achieved despite enormous animosity , perhaps we should look at another solution such as the United Nations . 
Or let us stop this talk of preconditions that the British Government keeps on about . 
In the precedents of South Africa , Kenya , Rhodesia and the Middle East , no such preconditions were made . 
Unless we get rid of this we are never going to get the talks going . 
I was glad that mention was made of Nelson Mandela . 
For ten years I have been involved with the Lomé Convention and I am so proud to think that the world has recognized this man . 
But are we going to make sure that the funding for the Third World is not diminished because we have so many other demands on our funds ? 
We want to help Eastern Europe but please do not let us allow any diminution of the funds for the Third World . 
Recently I was privileged to be in Ireland with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and meet many of the Irish Ministers . 
It was very interesting that Ireland is one of the four Member States that can meet the criteria for entry into EMU . 
Yet , as the Minister of Finance told us , there is , as everywhere else , a problem of unemployment . 
I am glad that this is a priority of the presidency . 
I also come from a peripheral region - the Highlands and Islands of Scotland - and we have to look to the SMEs , particularly the very small ones . 
And we have to look at that sleeping giant , tourism , which can create so many jobs . 
Perhaps we have to look at more funding for the upgrading of tourist facilities and marketing the lengthening of the season in those northern climes that do not necessarily have assured sunshine . 
We have to look at late payments and access to cheap money . 
There are many practical ways where we can translate the hopes of reducing unemployment into reality . 
On discrimination , perhaps the President-in-Office should lean on some of the EU institutions to make sure women get to the top . 
On the IGC , let us make sure that this Parliament us very fully involved . 
Mr President , in its priorities for the coming months the Irish presidency has made it clear that it is in favour of virtue and firmly opposed to sin . 
But , as we all know , the real world has a way of making life more complicated . 
As ever , my own country throws up the most paradoxes . 
The government proclaims its staunch support for the single market , but threatens to exclude the UK from the single currency . 
What it fails to realize is that an opt-out from the single currency , taken to its logical economic conclusion , will lead to a lock-out from the single market . 
I hope that the Irish presidency will devote time and energy to explaining these facts of life to the British Government . 
In so doing , it may finally turn on its head the old Anglo-Saxon misconception about the intellect of England 's Celtic neighbours . 
18 million unemployed and 50 million living in poverty provide a damning verdict on political leadership and government responsiveness in democracies which depend on political consent . 
We must not allow the pain of transition to undermine the whole European project . 
Mr President , I must congratulate you on a perfect Council answer . 
I wondered what kind of answer I was going to get . 
Would he say that this view of irreversibility is totally wrong , is not to be found in any of the treaties , and therefore , as in fact we have already seen in the case of Greenland - part of the Danish State - which has already seceded , there is no legal obstacle , whatever other practical obstacle there may be , to any country deciding voluntarily to leave the Union ? 
I would hope also that there might also be a precedent whereby there might be some chance of expulsion of countries exercising undemocratic practices over a long period of time . 
I am surprised that this was ever said , because I got the feeling that some other countries were so fed up with the present actions of the British Government at the moment they were actually talking about booting them out . 
I dare say that that has never been discussed either in the Council of Ministers . 
Mr President , I have been a Member here ever since we first introduced electronic voting , and during that time there must have been hundreds of mistakes . 
I am very sorry for any Member who makes a mistake on an important vote . 
I myself have made dozens of mistakes of that kind . 
It is unfortunate , but there is no alternative but to stick clearly to the rules laid down . 
That was the result of the vote as it was announced yesterday . 
Of course , Members have every right to indicate what their intention was , but it was the result of the vote that counted , and I do not think we should seek through the Minutes to try to rectify mistakes . 
As Mr McMillan-Scott said , every single time we have this discussion almost every trick in the book is called - every possible way in which we can change the vote . 
We made a decision and we ought , in fact , keep to that decision . 
Mr President , I congratulate Mrs Günther on the work she has done on this report . 
I share her worries which were also expressed by Mrs Kinnock . 
President Mandela recently visited London , and it was one of the most moving state visits the United Kingdom has seen for decades . 
The humility of this man is an example to the world of how someone who has endured so much suffering over so many years can show so much forgiveness and become such a respected world leader . 
He needs total support . 
South Africa - and its peaceful future - is the key to stability for the whole continent of Africa . 
If we can see a steady transition from the old oppressive regime to a new democracy supported by the European Union , not just in financial terms , but in genuine moves to rebuild a fair , equal and peaceful society as an example to the other African nations , then the European Union will have played its part in that new stability . 
Careful consideration will have to be given to see how South Africa will fit into any new organization that replaces Lomé if this can be negotiated . 
The whole emphasis of the new government must be to provide basic provisions for the people and this is what they are trying to do under difficult constraints . 
This means a rapid development in housing , health and education if the expectations of the people after the elections are to be fulfilled . 
NGOs will still have a major role to play . 
I support this report but I believe that further discussions should take place . 
Nothing ! 
I should like to congratulate Sir Leon and the Commission on their firm stand on this question . 
It seems to me that the US concern about democracy in Cuba is rather like their concern about peace in Iraq where they are delivering peace by Cruise missile . 
Having visited Cuba and the US a number of times , I have to say that in many ways Cuba is a more democratic society than the USA where both major parties are owned by corporate America . 
Perhaps we could best bring it home to the US by suggesting that it thinks about a blockade policy towards Saudi Arabia and other client states of the US where no democracy and human rights exist and very little concern is expressed by the Americans about them . 
I am sure that Parliament will tell Sir Leon Brittan that it very much values the relationship between the European Union and the United States of America . 
He is also aware that the European Parliament has been concerned for a very long period of time , even before-Helms-Burton , about the isolation of Cuba . 
In the area , for example , of development cooperation , we do not have any formal relationships with Cuba , unlike the whole of the rest of the Caribbean and Central and South America , so there are very great problems . 
I wonder to what extent the Commissioner feels it is possible to use this particular issue to make progress rapidly to formalize relationships with Cuba . 
This would be in the mutual interests of Cuba and the European Union . 
Mr President , I congratulate my colleague Mr Stenmarck on his report . 
To pick up on Commissioner Kinnock 's words , I should also like to pay tribute to my comrade Ken Stewart . 
It is ironic that we are discussing safety at sea tonight because , as many people here know , that was Ken 's main interest within Parliament . 
For many years he worked on the safety aspects of sea-going vessels . 
If Ken had still been alive he would have been in my place tonight conducting this debate . 
But if he had been then like myself I am sure he would have been delighted to see somebody from the right of this Chamber actually taking a serious view on the safety rules and standards for passenger ships . 
Over the last few years we have witnessed a number of tragedies at sea . 
But every day there are scores of accidents at sea , many of which are never reported , either because there has been no loss of life or the vessels involved were so small that it did not warrant a mention in the press . 
Safety of life at sea , however , should be our priority . 
As this report correctly points out , the advancing age of many sea-going vessels and the rapid deterioration in maintenance standards means that safety standards are becoming harder and harder to uphold . 
Couple this with the registration of many ships under flags of convenience , especially in those countries which have very poor safety records and the risk of loss of life at sea is increasing rather than diminishing as one would have hoped . 
But the maintenance of the safety standards and the implementation of those standards are the responsibility of the state and that is a responsibility that they must not evade . 
However , while the state can uphold the various safety regulations , the greatest responsibility lies with the owners whether they be private individuals or companies . 
It is here that we are going to have to bring greater pressure to bear by whatever means possible . 
Too many companies are flouting international safety standards and escaping prosecution . 
While we have a duty to tackle this problem within EU waters , ultimately this a problem which requires international action . 
Turning now to the amendments which have been tabled by the Committee on Transport and Tourism , the Socialist Group will be supporting all the amendments with the exception of Amendment No 16 . 
We welcome the commitment to a minimum level of training for maritime occupations , the introduction of survival clothing for passengers and crews on passenger ships operating in water where the temperature is low , i.e. under 15o Celsius . 
That is why we will be opposing Amendment No 16 while supporting the rest . 
Mr President , I hope the cancelling of Question Time to the Council is an absolute exception . 
I would like to point out to you that when it was decided to move Question Time from its late evening position to an earlier slot , we were assured that it would not be pushed off the agenda . 
So , may I have your assurance that this is an exception . 
Mr President , I would like to congratulate Mr van der Waal on his patience in recommending this second reading on a common position . 
I would inform colleagues that on this occasion it appears that New Labour coincides with Old Conservatism . 
The emphasis has to be on dealing with the problem of over-capacity and in this regard I welcome Mr van der Waal 's comments that we must ensure that the amount of funding is secured not just for 1996 but for 1997 and 1998 and indeed urge the Council to extend the scrapping programme right up to the end of 1999 . 
We must ensure that the fund will apply until the position of over-capacity has been resolved . 
As has been mentioned overcapacity is possibly as high as 20 % in the European tanker sector . 
Therefore , I particularly support the extra scrapping system in this sector with the aim of removing at least an extra 10 % of capacity in the first year . 
I would remind colleagues that the provisions in this common position are to liberalize and open up the market . 
There are three parts to the common position : liberalizing , re-structuring and promoting the inland waterway sector . 
I hope that all three will carry equal weight . 
With regard to the last common position on the granting of aids for transport by rail , road and inland waterway , this is particularly welcome as it will streamline decision-making and reduce bureaucracy . 
My one concern is that while we welcome an emphasis on combined transport , and particularly in the UK under a Conservative government trying to transport more freight by rail and take it off the roads wherever appropriate , it must not be to the total detriment of conventional freight operations . 
Let us not lose sight of the good old lorry . 
Perhaps the Commissioner would like to comment on that . 
Mr President , I would join with your good wishes for the rapporteur and congratulate him on his report . 
At least his name will be enshrined in Parliament even if he goes . 
I hope that he has a good journey and does not need to avail himself of any of the provisions of this carrier liability . 
You can tell just how long ago that was because 1929 was the year I was born . 
Nobody ever thought much about flying in aeroplanes in those days . 
I welcome the Commission proposal because it improves the situation for people who need to claim compensation in the event of an accident , both in terms of the amount they will receive and the speed with which they will be helped . 
To do this , the Commission proposes abolishing the Warsaw Convention limits which , as I said , are completely out of date , bringing in a more objective definition of liability rather than a subjective definition - although here , I agree with the rapporteur when he suggests that the figure should go up to ECU 120 , 000 rather than ECU 100 , 000 because that brings it more into line with existing IATA agreements and would cause less confusion . 
I also welcome the provision for emergency payments and , in particular , the widening of the area in which one can take action , allowing people to take action in the courts of the Member State in which they are domiciled . 
That is a big improvement . 
I support the various arrangements the rapporteur has mentioned , including the amendments asking for full information rather than just adequate information to be given to passengers and others . 
One issue that caused problems was the case of third-country carriers . 
Ideally I would like to have seen all of them subject to the new EU regulations . 
We have some precedent for this in areas such as denied boarding compensation . 
As the rapporteur has said , the Montreal Convention , although it applies to the United States , does in fact include air carriers from outside the United States . 
Nevertheless , when this was fully discussed in committee , we had to accept the very strong legal view of the Commission that this would not be possible . 
But in conjunction with the rapporteur , I put forward amendments which were accepted , suggesting that the Commission should seek to incorporate in its negotiations for civil aviation agreements with third countries a commitment to applying the provisions outlined in this regulation . 
If this is successful I feel that , as most airlines offer reasonable compensation on a voluntary basis and many of them are signing up to the IATA agreement which their own regulation overlaps , there will eventually be not only uniformity in what is offered to European Union passengers , but also a more realistic level of compensation , no matter which airline they use . 
There is a general consensus that the Warsaw Convention needs to be modernized and there are various attempts to do so . 
If the Commissioner or any one has any doubt why there is an urgent need to so , I would simply remind colleagues about the Lockerbie disaster . 
Pan Am aircraft No 101 was bombed and destroyed over Scotland . 
The bereaved are still trying to sort out compensation claims , subject to the Montreal Intercarrier Agreement . 
Compensation has not yet been fully paid out . 
Pan Am subsequently went out of business . 
I heard particularly disturbing news through the newspapers recently that Pan Am may be resurrected as a different company but maintain the same name . 
In all honesty , we in this House must ensure that all outstanding claims should be met before another airline by that name should be allowed to carry passengers - certainly in the European Union . 
The lack of uniformity in arrangements for air carrier liability across the European Union is a particular point of concern , not just to the Commission but also to the European Parliament . 
I wish to look in particular at the Commission proposal and a number of our amendments . 
I regret to inform the rapporteur that as far as Amendments Nos 3 , 6 and 16 are concerned the Commission text is much clearer . 
I understand that there may be some confusion , particularly as it is very much a legal text , between what is meant by both ` domicile ' and ` permanent residence ' . 
The Commission text for both Amendments Nos 6 and 16 is much clearer . 
It is quite right that we introduce what is known as this fifth jurisdiction for those who currently have their domicile or permanent residence in a European Union country . 
It would be quite wrong for this House to seek to remove that jurisdiction . 
Amendment No 4 raises the strict liability of European Union carriers to the sum of ECU 120 , 000 rather than the Commission proposal of ECU 100 , 000 . 
I certainly support that figure as being more realistic . 
My direct question to the Commission is : how would this new situation change , i.e. that of unlimited liability ? 
Where we can prove an airline was at fault , how would that situation be so different to the situation with Pan Am where so many difficulties compounded the question of compensation ? 
In conclusion , I welcome the provision that this would apply to domestic as well as international travel , fifth jurisdiction and domicile and permanent residence . 
The fact that the European Union action reflects that already undertaken by IATA and to be followed by ICAO will enhance consumer protection and fair competition in the European aviation sector . 
I congratulate both the rapporteur and the Commission on bringing forward this proposal . 
As I indicated in my speech I would much prefer that we kept to the original Commission text unless the Commission gave us some extremely compelling reasons for those two changes . 
The key point about consumer protection should be where I , as a claimant , have my domicile or permanent residence at the time of the claim . 
Why would the Commission seek to change that ? 
Madam President , I would like to thank Mr Herman for working at such speed and trying to guide us through the revolution that we are in the middle of . 
I would like to concentrate on the regional and cultural social aspects . 
We must have the guarantee of a universal public service reaching into even the remotest places , for example to the 90 inhabited islands in my constituency . 
We do not want a two-speed Europe with an information society benefiting only the industrialized regions . 
We do not want the marginalization of the peripheries and the over-centralization which could occur . 
The information society really can enhance lives for people on the periphery . 
On the cultural side , I welcome the special role for public service broadcasting in minority languages because the cultural diversity of our Union must be one of the things we treasure the most . 
Each language is a vital part of Europe 's heritage and the information society will assist the nurturing of these precious languages . 
I want to see free access to information networks for schools , cultural bodies , libraries , community centres , etc. . 
We must make sure that this information society makes it possible for people to be in control of information rather than information controlling the people . 
Unless we emphasize the social and regional aspects , however , the positive advantages of the information society may be lost to us all . 
In his last answer , the Commissioner said that the possibility of harmful use has now been excluded . 
Because they can not use Smoltine , which deals with transferring the fish from fresh water to salt water , they have to use hydrogen peroxide , which is very costly and has very serious effects on the life of the fish . 
The second product , Azamethipos , deals with sea lice , which are causing considerable problems in the salmon industry , not just in Scotland but throughout the Union , stunting growth and causing problems with stocks . 
Now that the problems seem to be solved and given the importance of these products for the Scottish salmon industry , can I have the Commissioner 's assurance that he will give quick authorization ? 
The salmon industry in Scotland , Ireland and elsewhere within the Union is very anxious that these products be licensed as quickly as possible , knowing that trial runs have proved that there is no deleterious effect to fish or to human beings . 
When I undertook to do this report I tried to avoid the old arguments and to approach the subject from a different perspective . 
I believe that excise duty should not be seen purely as a revenue-raising exercise , but also as an employment-creation instrument . 
However , above all this , the overriding priority should be to bring about the implementation of an equitable tax system where there is no distortion of competition between alcoholic beverages . 
The Single European Act set out the principle of harmonization of indirect taxation within the European Union . 
We have consistently failed to achieve that goal , and that has led to serious distortion in cross-border trade and a rise in smuggling and fraud . 
This problem has to be examined and the appropriate steps taken to rectify it . 
In this report there are also provisions for small brewers and small distillers to have a reduced excise duty rate . 
This , hopefully , will aid employment , especially in the rural areas where many of these small distillers and small brewers are located and where , knowing many of the rural areas , unemployment is higher . 
So hopefully this will be taken on board by the Commission . 
I would also like to draw the Commission 's attention to compromise Amendment No 23 , which highlights the difference between the rates of excise duty on wine , beer and spirits and says it should not be increased . 
If we accept that there is competition between alcoholic beverages - and I know that the Commission does accept this principle , because it formed the basis of its argument to the World Trade Organization when it took on the case of the Japanese liquor tax - we must not allow one country unilaterally to increase excise duty on one beverage , thereby benefiting the other beverages . 
This linkage amendment is therefore important to all sectors of the drinks industry . 
I now touch on the thorny question of the zero rate for wine . 
The time for specific rates , for specific figures , will be when the Commission produces its follow-up report to this one . 
Until then we should stick to the guiding principles which we adopted at the very start in the committee and there should be no specific figures . 
Finally , we can not discuss this issue of excise duty without bringing in the question of health . 
It would be irresponsible not to take account of alcoholic consumption within the Member States and of the social , economic and health costs . 
It is therefore highlighted in this report , and I hope it is taken seriously on board . 
As has been touched on already , in my home country of Scotland to toast one with a glass of whisky we say ` Slàinte mhaith ' . 
Can I say ` Slàinte mhaith ' to yourself , and good health ! 
Madam President , the confusion is brought about by your chairing of the sitting . 
My point of order has been up for a very long time and is this : it is becoming an unwelcome practice in this House for oral amendments to be put by Members . 
If an amendment is desired then thought should be given to it in advance and it should be placed in writing for the consideration of others . 
Madam President , I am surprised to hear Mrs Green making these remarks this morning . 
It is these sort of remarks that add to the problems which the beef sector is currently going through . 
That is the sort of inflationary , inflammatory type of remark which is creating the problem and making it even worse . 
Let me assure the Members of this House that the decision taken by the British Government overnight concerns a more effective cull to get rid of the BSE problem more quickly and in that way we will all be able to get back to normality as quickly as possible . 
Madam President , I should like to thank Mr Funk for his report which we will be supporting this morning . 
I would also like to thank the Commissioner for the remarks that he has made this morning because we are facing a very grave crisis in the beef sector . 
I would like to concentrate on what has already been said regarding the culling policy this morning . 
As far as I understand it - I do not know if anybody here is fully aware of all the facts of the British Government decision at the present time - the policy is to be sharpened and refocused , to take out the required number of cattle that will most effectively get rid of BSE as quickly as possible , thus restoring the confidence that is required , not only in Britain but right across Europe . 
The Florence agreement had a policy for an accelerated cull involving a wide spectrum of cattle that had to be taken out to satisfy public opinion . 
What the British Government is now proposing is a very much sharper focus of that culling policy . 
We can only take out 30 , 000 cattle a week . 
We will continue to take out 30 , 000 cattle a week , and nothing over 30 months will be going into the food chain . 
What is important - and this is where the new scientific evidence comes in , and why the government has taken the decision that it has - is that we make that cull the most effective cull possible . 
It has to be sharply focused ; it has to actually take out the cattle that are most likely to have the disease . 
If we just take a wide scattering of cattle off the market and out of the herds , it is not going to be an effective cull . 
I am surprised to hear Mrs Green saying what she has said in the House this morning because her own Labour Party spokesman in the House of Commons is agreeing entirely with the government policy . 
Madam President , I thank the rapporteur for his report . 
Whilst I do not entirely agree with the rapporteur on this issue , I can say that on the whole I agree with the Commission 's proposal , although rather like Mrs Hardstaff I would like to see the matters implemented on an accelerated basis . 
It is quite clear from the report of the Scientific Veterinary Committee that rearing veal in individual crates does cause serious welfare problems and therefore I believe that the phasing-out period should be no longer than five years . 
Most people may not be aware that calves of one to three weeks of age travel in veal crates from various parts of perhaps the entire Community to one farm . 
Three weeks is a sufficient period for the calves to settle down and for any health problems to be recognized and treated . 
It is therefore preferable at that stage to get all calves into groups as soon as possible . 
A young calf is a gregarious animal and it goes with the herd instinct as quickly as possible and I believe that to deny the calf that possibility is creating a hazard for the future . 
I think that we have a report and some amendments before the House that we can all accept . 
I also believe that it is appropriate that we do something to try and encourage the future of veal production and that we should do something to encourage the consumer to recognize that veal will be produced in a healthy and wholesome way , without infringing animal welfare issues . 
Mr President , our concern is for action against a very brutal regime , one that is faced by a remarkable and courageous opposition . 
That opposition has specifically appealed to the European Union , to the European Parliament for action urgently to bring about change by the isolation of Burma . 
We also have a very specific mandate from the people of the European Union . 
The network of support groups in the towns and villages across Europe is asking us to do everything in our power and to act urgently . 
We have the facts , we know about the deaths , we know about the disappearances , the detentions , the suffering of so many people and we are entitled to demand more than we have heard tonight from the Commission . 
We want it to follow up the very important hearing on forced labour that took place in Brussels with action on the GSP . 
We want the Council under this presidency later this month to take a whole range of initiatives to isolate Burma . 
We also appeal to the countries in the immediate region of Burma , our respective partners , to cooperate with us . 
I know they often remind us that they , unlike many parts of the world , are reluctant to interfere in the internal affairs of neighbouring states . 
Could I finally say that there will be change in Burma . 
Madam President , through no fault of yours there was nothing on the screen to indicate which report we were voting on . 
There is a lot of noise in the Chamber and it is impossible to follow this vote . 
For example , if we are setting up a register at European level , what action do we propose to take with the names entered on that register ? 
In the United Kingdom , for example , we are going to disclose the names of those who have a record of criminal offences involving children to potential employers . 
Is that the type of action we could coordinate at European level ? 
Of more concern to me is the fact that you did not mention how we are going to control adverts currently being put on the Internet through the known paedophile ring , which is very difficult to trace . 
That is an area where we can usefully insist on action being taken at European level . 
I welcome what the President-in-Office said but I think we need to take action further than has been suggested . 
Given the problem which Glasgow Celtic Football Club had with Monaco over the transfer of John Collins , would the President-in-Office enlighten us as to whether freedom of movement of footballers and other Community citizens is part of the agreement with Monaco ? 
If it is not , will he give us an assurance that there will be urgent discussions between the Community and Monaco to settle problems such as Celtic Football Club has experienced ? 
I do not think the question was about asking that the over thirty minority languages supported by the magnificent Irish Bureau become official languages . 
I would like to see the Council support our request for more money for these languages . 
There is a very interesting and constitutional question because Commissioner Bangemann assured me last month in this Chamber that the matter had gone to the Council . 
Now I wonder if Commissioner Bangemann was telling a lie and whether I should raise the question of Commissioners coming before the House and not giving us accurate information . 
This is very serious for European elected representatives . 
I would ask the President-in-Office to persevere with this issue . 
I will obviously pursue it with the Commission to find out what exactly happened . 
But my information is that because there was a deadlock with the veterinary committee , the matter is referred automatically to the Council . 
So this is very important for the future of industries in very vulnerable and peripheral areas . 
I thank the President-in-Office and I will pursue this with the Commission yet again . 
I just wish to say that , of course , as the Scottish banks have been issuing for over 200 years these notes that are not legal tender , we do not come under the Maastricht rules and , therefore , we are not posing a problem to anyone . 
The problem is as always - not just for the people of Scotland but for everybody - one of public acceptability . 
The German Foreign Ministry indicated to me when I raised this in the debates that public acceptability would be strengthened enormously if everybody could have something familiar on one side of the note or the coin . 
However , in the case of Scotland , as we have no legal tender status , we have every right to say : let us carry on an excellent practice which is very acceptable and has gone on for over 200 years . 
Mr President , I think the Commissioner probably recognizes the fact that across the floor of this House there is a great deal of support for the development of tourism at European level . 
The Commissioner has done a great deal to try to assist Members in this House in making that happen . 
We can agree on most things right across the floor of this House except perhaps on the matter of a tourism agency which rears its head from time to time . 
I am sure the Commissioner is aware that the trade itself is not particularly comfortable with the idea of developing such an agency . 
The other problem is that we recognize the fact that the Member State governments do not actually want the European Community as such to take on a great role in this area . 
That makes me work all the harder to try and make sure that we can do something at Community level . 
I would hope that , in the simple steps we are taking at the beginning with the Philoxenia programme , we must recognize that this is only the start of the long road we have to travel if we are to achieve something for the tourism industry as such . 
As has been pointed out by many speakers this morning and this afternoon , it is going to be a long haul actually to get more jobs , etc , etc. in the industry and make people recognize tourism as an industry as such . 
However , it is also necessary for the Commissioner to strive in the Commission to ensure that we get proper coordination of all matters that affect tourism . 
I regret greatly the fact that the structural funds are dispensed by regional committees and regional departments of the Commission rather than the tourism department , DG XXIII . 
I hope the Commissioner will step up his resolve within the Commission to try and achieve that for the industry . 
Madam President , I welcome the Commissioner here this morning . 
It seems a long time since the Commissioner was on the Committee on Agriculture of this Parliament and it is nice to see her taking an interest in fisheries matters again . 
We have four important issues in front of us this morning and I want to concentrate on salmon in particular . 
Let me say that the monitoring and control of the common fisheries policy is extremely important and I hope that Parliament is covering the matter adequately today . 
I would like to let the Green Group know that we will support their amendments on the McKenna report . 
It is especially important that we recognize in this Parliament that by-catches , discards and black fish are something that we really have to get to grips with . 
But I address basically the question of the import of salmon from Norway . 
We have to recognize that the Commission has moved a long way by bringing forward this inquiry into the dumping of Norwegian salmon . 
The chairman of the Fisheries Committee has graphically demonstrated the problem , and I thank him for his involvement and support in this issue . 
However , the Commission could have gone further and , like Mr Gallagher , I call on all Member States to take some action against the Norwegian Government at the present time on the amount of salmon that it is sending into the Community . 
It is not good enough for governments to stand aside and see fish-farming and perhaps the future of fish production in the European Community being decimated by one country which is determined to gain a substantial market share at the expense of a young , thriving industry in some of the peripheral areas of our Community . 
In the last few days I have had the opportunity of looking at this problem and recognize that minimum import prices could be implemented straight away . 
I hope that could happen and that in the longer term we have the courage and the guts to bring in some form of quantitative restrictions . 
He comes only 3 % of the time , so I suppose we would be lucky to catch him in this particular debate . 
With regard to the García Arias report , the rapporteur got it just about right in his attempt to balance the public service and privatized facilities . 
There is no panacea , but what I have to say is that if you are concerned about peripheries you have to realize that normally only the public service will have a social element at the top of the agenda and that on the whole you can not expect the privatized facilities to do so . 
Would it not be extraordinary if , whatever country you were in , you paid a different postage stamp according to whether you came from Paris or the south of France , or from the Island of Tiree or London ? 
This is wrong unless of course you want all the people in these faraway places to leave these faraway places and come and live in the cities where probably they would have no jobs and be a burden and the faraway places would then be uninteresting deserts for the tourists . 
I represent a periphery , often called a wilderness . 
But it was turned into a wilderness by the greed of men who took the resources and eventually left fewer and fewer people . 
You have to realize that while both the public and the private have advantages and good qualities , there has to be a recognition of the social element . 
I wonder whether that can possibly be done if we encourage privatization to take over the public role . 
With regard to the Secchi report , the internal market and integration are meant to go hand-in-hand with our move towards EMU . 
As a citizen - albeit a reluctant one - of the UK , I find this quite interesting because sometimes I wonder if it is a dream the Germans have because frankly the articles in the press from both the major parties suggest that we may not be going towards EMU . 
It is interesting that the entry of three new states did not disrupt our move towards integration . 
It was said they would , but they did not . 
We have gone along with it . 
I would go with Mr Rapkay 's proposal of the reduction of the threshold . 
We are in favour of Mrs Hautala 's code of conduct for multinationals and we know that multinationals when they move into areas like mine sometimes do not stay . 
So I agree with the phrase about longevity of investment . 
I support Mr Kuckelkorn all the way in his support for ELISE . 
Surely the less mobile factor here is not labour but New Labour . 
Mr President , I regret that the peace process has not moved on and I recognize the frustration and the erosion of confidence that has taken place . 
But I believe that we must recognize that there is a new government in Israel . 
Strong political and commercial links exist between Europe and the Middle East . 
It is in all our interests that the peace process should continue and indeed be accelerated because nobody likes the frustrations of the present moment . 
Destabilization is something else that is happening out there , whether it be from Iran or Iraq . 
It is a crucial issue for the future of the peace process . 
Lasting settlement will have to recognize the rights of the Palestinians as well . 
The Palestinians , however , must recognize that Israel has some rights and all , I believe , want to live in peace and security . 
The European Union is the largest financial supporter of the Palestinians . 
I believe that peace needs to be rewarded . 
Friends of both Israel and Palestine want to see each other living comfortably side by side but it takes statesmanship to achieve that and not belligerence . 
I salute King Hussein , I salute President Mubarak of Egypt . 
I hope that the European Union and the United States of America can all work closely together to achieve what we all want : that is the development , the continuation and hopefully , the finality of the peace movement . 
I thank the President-in-Office , Mr Mitchell , for a very full reply . 
On the percentage allocated to the United Kingdom , would he not agree that it would seem fairer to give a higher percentage to the country whose market and whose consumer confidence in that market has been most seriously damaged ? 
On the question of tagging , with regard to whatever scheme of cattle labelling the Council agrees to introduce , would the President-in-Office not accept this could involve either an electronic system , as in Ulster , or where this is simply impractical , a paper base system ? 
My interest is in the practical way in which the scheme will operate . 
Clearly , there are certain parts of the EU where it is not possible to introduce a system of electronic tagging . 
It is important in these areas that at the very least an extensive paper or cattle passport system will be put in place . 
I thank the President-in-Office for his full reply to my colleague Mr Smith 's question . 
When he is raising the matter with the Commission could he perhaps consult the BBC Scotland programme ` Frontline Scotland ' , which highlighted an amazing cover-up of an incident which occurred some twenty-five to thirty years ago , at which time the then director of the Dounreay installation apparently withheld information not only from the British Government but also from the Commission and the Community inspectorate . 
I would also suggest to him that this is not an attack on the nuclear installation programme , it is a question of health and safety which , as he quite rightly pointed out , is uppermost in the minds of the Council and of Members of this Parliament . 
That means the health and safety not only of the workers but of the wider community . 
So before he sees the Commission I would ask him to look at the programme called ` Frontline Scotland ' , which lasts about twenty minutes , and he can see for himself the horrendous exposé of the Dounreay health and safety inspectorate at that time and the cover-up which ensued . 
This is the very subject , which Mr Spiers has just referred to , which is vital . 
There is no sense in making laws and passing regulations unless we can actually enforce them , and this is at the nub of the problem . 
It is there , it is a responsibility of the Commission . 
I submit to her , as most of my colleagues have today , that it is up to her to ensure that the Member States do that . 
If that means employing extra people to go round the national capitals to ensure that the rules are applied properly , so be it . 
But there are other ways because , in animal welfare generally , we have a vast population of people throughout the Community who are intensely interested in animal welfare . 
They would happily be involved , one way or another - whether it be through subscribing to voluntary organizations or whatever - to ensure that the law was applied . 
I hope that the Commissioner will find a way - because she is a very practical , competent and capable person - of ensuring that the rules will be applied properly . 
Mr President , would you consider designating two of the lifts downstairs for Members of Parliament . 
The reason this House is so empty just now is because there are over 200 Members trying to get up in the lifts . 
Because visitors can not get up they are using the lifts to go down to -2 and then back up again . 
If we had two lifts designated for Members there would be many more Members in the Chamber now . 
Mr President , my point is not related to the point just raised by Mr Corrie . 
Their desire to present this petition was notified to Parliament weeks in advance . 
The event was organized in conjunction with Parliament 's services and yet on their arrival today they encountered long delays in entering and their technicians encountered an attitude little short of hostile from some of Parliament 's staff . 
This Parliament should be open and accessible to the people of Europe and this kind of event should be encouraged . 
Would you order an investigation into the events surrounding today and find out why it was so difficult for the animal-testing protesters to gain access to this building . 
Some of us might be tempted to come in wearing swimming costumes in order to catch your eye in future . 
The first is negligence by the French Government in failing to implement the drivers ' hours regulations . 
The second is negligence by the French Government for failing to uphold the fundamental Treaty provisions on free movement . 
On the matter of compensation , fresh foods , perishable products and even live animals have been delayed for over eight days . 
They might perish and compensation must be paid . 
We have the right to petition the Commission on constituents ' behalf to take action for compensation . 
Will he take these actions up on our behalf ? 
Mr President , I would like to remark that one Member of this House , Mr Goldsmith , who rarely favours us with his presence in debates on economic matters or indeed any matters at all , has said with huge media coverage that Europe is sleep-walking into EMU . 
I consider that to be a gross insult to this House , to all the rapporteurs , to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy , to the President of Ecofin and to President Santer and the Commission . 
I would perhaps rather describe our progress as zig-zagging , because if you look at the statements that were made , five States were said to be eligible , then it was four and recent coverage has suggested only two . 
I would like to congratulate Ireland on having become the tiger economy of Europe and of being able to qualify . 
Now my Group and my party in Scotland is in favour of EMU . 
We consider it absurd to have a single market without the accompanying single currency . 
I have the speaking time of Mr Sainjon who was taken ill , and I have agreed to say one or two things on his behalf . 
He wants to see a single currency working to create employment , and Europe must concentrate its efforts on meeting this objective . 
The euro must be regarded as the engine driving economic and social progress . 
He says it represents three things for Europe today . 
It will help to consolidate peace in our continent and among our peoples , of course any government moving in the right direction should be able to join , and we must watch that we do not overvalue the euro and so destroy a lot of our aims . 
All the reports are excellent . 
Starting with Mr Metten , I like the confident note in his report . 
He is confident that at the third stage we will start with a sufficient number of Member States . 
He also points out that an arithmetical application of the criteria is not possible , and if applied there would not be a sufficient number . 
In his explanatory statement he points out we could either do this with a big bang or we could do it in the way we are , converging first and then creating the Union . 
So we come to the need for flexibility which other speakers have mentioned . 
This changes . 
For instance , Denmark , which meets the criteria , has an interest rate 1 % higher than some states that do not meet the criteria . 
So it looks as if we still have some questions to be answered with regard to exactly what flexibility means . 
When is a decline in deficit substantial ? 
When is a debt sufficiently diminishing ? 
What is a satisfactory pace ? 
Is there any threat to the date of 1 January ? 
I would like to congratulate Mr Christodoulou on taking on board the economic aspects , the quest for job creation . 
That was not always the attitude when I lodged amendments to that effect a year ago , but the groups seem to have come round to that . 
With regard to the stability pact , I have a question for the Commission . 
Are they going to make proposals for the surveillance of the ` outs ' ? 
Are we going to treat Britain with an opt-out in the same way as other ` outs ' who want to get in ? 
If Britain does not want to get in and uses the opt-out , which I deplore , are they in the same position ? 
How many years will the surveillance obligation to report annually continue ? 
I agree with Mr Donnelly 's speech in its entirety and particularly his plea that we do fall into the trap of the proposed German strait-jacket . 
I would like to congratulate Mr Herman on his passionate speech and on his need to inform , prepare and reassure . 
Is it not deplorable that in the State I belong to there is almost no attempt to inform ? 
They seem to have opted out of that obligation . 
I would like to again repeat a point I have often made about public acceptability of this new currency . 
I suggest and cling to the idea that one side of the note and coin should be similar to the existing issuing notes that are issued by banks . 
That would go a long way to make the public feel that this was their currency . 
In Hoppenstedt , which follows on Metten , he repeats many of the demands and expresses his regrets at some of the statements that are being made that States have to make savings because of Maastricht , that the European ideal has been undermined . 
Mr Harrison I thought made his paper very clear and come to life when he emphasized the need for a policy mix between centralized monetary policy and decentralized economic and employment policies . 
He mentions in his explanatory statement the rather bad example that followed German unification when a wrong mix of policies caused great hardship indeed . 
Mr Harrison explained his report very clearly . 
On the doom-and-gloom side of loss of jobs , I wish the people who talk about the loss of jobs would tell us how exactly the jobs are going to be lost . 
They say this so often as if it is a fact . 
The media in Britain say it all the time . 
Will there not in fact be extra jobs ? 
So would we please pin those critics down . 
For exporters , and my country Scotland exports six times as much per head as most other countries , the markets will be more calculable and comparable the tourists will benefit and we will remove exchange costs of ECU 25 billion . 
Mr President , I welcome these reports which we are debating today . 
There is no doubt that we are on track to the single currency . 
It will make the internal market work better , creating wealth and jobs . 
It will reduce interest rates for countries such as my own and for our citizens it will represent a tangible symbol of European unity . 
The Liberal Democrats in this House believe that as time goes on the well-drafted parts of the Maastricht Treaty are proving their worth . 
The convergence criteria and the rules to counter excessive deficits , for example , are among these and must be respected . 
In my Member State there is a rather strange situation at the moment where members of the governing party are worried that they are about to get a dose of their own medicine . 
Perhaps if those members stopped behaving like councillors in the London Borough of Wandsworth they would have less to worry about . 
I have two specific questions I should like to put tonight , one to the Council and one to the Commission . 
Would the President-in-Office of the Council confirm that Monday 's Ecofin will not take decisions , as was reported to the British House of Commons yesterday ? 
Would he also confirm that Article 103 excludes any possibility of fines or penalties being imposed on countries which do not join stage 3 of monetary union ? 
Would the Commissioner confirm that policies adopted by the Member States for collection of Community-based taxes like VAT and excise duties in their rush to bolster their public finances do not contravene the Treaty requirements to treat Community-based taxes in the same way as Member-State-based taxes . 
I should be grateful for an answer to those questions tonight . 
Mr President , I think we should all welcome Mr Castricum back after his absence last week when there was a discussion on the streets of Brussels about the White Paper on the future of the railways . 
We regretted that Mr Castricum could not be present to join this ongoing debate outside the European Parliament buildings last week but it is good to see him here tonight . 
I congratulate the Commission on its Green Paper ` Citizens ' network for public passenger transport ' and especially congratulate Mr Wijsenbeek on his hard work in bringing this report before the committee and now before the House . 
I welcome the emphasis on promoting access to public transport in preference to an increasing obsession with the private car . 
It is good to see that research and development programmes at European level have a role to play in particular pursuing telematic projects in public transport . 
Mr Wijsenbeek 's report looks especially at the financing of public transport and promoting intermodality . 
I welcome the improvements to the environment and public health as well as the assistance to outlying peripheral areas of the Union . 
However , I am anxious to adhere to the principle of subsidiarity . 
I am also in favour of a subject which is close to Mr Wijsenbeek 's heart , namely promotion of the use of the bicycle . 
Perhaps the Commissioner could see fit to promote the greater use of cycle paths throughout the European Union and easier access for bicycles to be carried on trains . 
I also see the need for the facilitation of access to public transport for the disabled , the elderly and the less mobile . 
I hope the Commissioner and the rapporteur will join with me tonight in looking to support one specific mode of transport which the European Union has consistently supported , namely the Channel Tunnel . 
I am sure the Commission and Parliament will share my concern that the recent fire in the tunnel may have been started by a flare thrown from a lorry driver on the blockade at the entry to the tunnel . 
Will the Commission tonight promise a full inquiry into the causes of the Channel Tunnel fire and eliminate any potential cause which may be linked to the blockade . 
I would like the Commissioner to confirm tonight to the House that he fully supports the new European Union safety competence enshrined in Article 75 of the Treaty of Maastricht . 
Turning briefly to Mr Killilea 's excellent report on non-resident carriers being able to operate national road passenger transport services , I welcome the Commission proposal and Mr Killilea 's report , especially to allow cabotage in the course of a regular international service . 
For the first time a coach travelling between London and Lisbon will be permitted to pick up and put down passengers in France or Spain . 
I welcome this freedom and the greater liberalization which this expresses . 
Greater competition in Europe 's cross-national bus and coach services will mean cheaper fares . 
That is good news for travellers and for coach companies . 
The environment will benefit . 
Coaches in future will be able to offer a better , a more competitive service , and will no longer have to travel half-full or empty , adding to the expense of operators and environmental pollution . 
In conclusion , I welcome the Wijsenbeek and Killilea reports . 
Mr President , what is our European Union ? 
It must be the greatest international experiment in democracy the world has ever seen . 
It is also a reaction to Europe 's centuries of bloody wars . 
As a child of the war and the longest-serving Member of this Parliament I have seen three enlargements . 
It is very moving to hear the way Mr Colom i Naval and Mrs Stenzel have spoken . 
Greece , Spain , Portugal , Sweden , Austria and Finland : each enlargement has enriched this House and enhanced the lives of all on our continent . 
We have seen the Berlin Wall tumble down , we have seen the Iron Curtain swept aside . 
And the great question before us now is the one Mr Christodoulou has posed : are we going to be able to extend our umbrella over these new applicant countries ? 
There are different views , of course . 
Germany - the best citizen , perhaps , of our Community - wants deeper and wider ; the UK , perhaps the worst Member State , wants wider but not deeper ; France wants deeper but not wider . 
So there are different views here . 
Mr Christodoulou has not been simplistic ; he has spelled out the financial difficulties . 
Mr President , I wish to pay tribute to your very fair presidency of Question Time . 
I gather this is going to be your last one and I am sorry to see you go . 
I hope you will not take that off my one minute , of course ! 
I accept the Commissioner 's response on the question of the common position on Cuba but I hope that we will not get so hung up on the question of human rights that we forget the essentials of our position towards Cuba , which is to oppose the Helms-Burton Act and the attempt by the US to blackmail the people of Cuba and the people of the world , because of specific ideological commitments in the US . 
Those are the human rights which the Cuban people want to keep and , although we , of course , expect and respect democracy , the broader conception of human rights is one which is shared by this Parliament and I know is shared by the Commissioner . 
Mr President , in this , my twenty-first year as a Member of the European Parliament , I detect a very strong mood of optimism . 
That is fairly new and I think we owe it a lot to the Irish presidency . 
If ever anyone personified the philosophy of ` small is beautiful ' it must be the Irish presidency . 
Here we have the tiger economy of Europe with an enormous growth rate so it is rather appropriate , as we are engaging in the EMU discussion , that it should be Ireland that has been leading us for six months . 
On EMU the pessimists talk about the loss of jobs , without ever explaining what jobs will be lost . 
I suggest jobs will be gained . 
We congratulate Mr Spring for his foreign policy efforts , for putting employment into the Treaty and for the unique openness of this document , so that the whole of Europe knows where we are going from here . 
Mr President , on the question of television companies , I have taken recently to signing two registers , the one on the right-hand side and the one on the left-hand side . 
I have to report to the House a sad case of discrimination because I have never been filmed yet and I feel sorry about that . 
Is it because the producers of these films are only photographing the good-looking ones in this Chamber and cast aside the unphotogenic ? 
The document should be available in the languages of the Members present . 
We have entered dangerous ground when you use the majority to squash the views of a minority . 
Madam President , you raised a very interesting principle . 
You said that this House should never vote on anything that it does not understand . 
That is a fascinating principle . 
Perhaps you should refer it to Mr Fayot as chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to see if he could do anything about it . 
Madam President , you very kindly said that you would check the allegation of the abuse of the principle of one person one vote . 
I assume that you have had time to check this . 
Can you report now ? 
If not , could you let us know how quickly you are going to report because the card that was in the voting machine whose number was mentioned was actually removed by Mr Pasty about two minutes ago . 
I would like you to know exactly when you are going to report to the House on this because it is a very serious abuse of the Rules of Procedure and can lead to the expulsion of Members for a number of days . 
I am sure you would want to report as a matter of some urgency . 
Madam President , one of the successes of the Hänsch presidency has been the elimination of this abuse of certain Members voting more than once in a procedure that has been described to me as ` playing the piano ' . 
You have agreed that there will be an investigation . 
It is no good having this investigation and then reporting back in January or February of next year . 
The culprit is sitting in his seat now and I should like to know what you are going to do about it . 
Madam President , I am looking forward to your report because the occupant of 424 is involved in the implications of your report . 
Could you request that he does not leave the Chamber before we have this report ? 
I think I have just seen him make a dash for the door . 
Madam President , you are aware that some of us take this European Parliament and its commitment to democratic values and practice very seriously indeed . 
I know you do and I know the vast majority of people here do . 
Democratic values include a commitment , as far as voting and elections are concerned , to the basic principle of one person one vote . 
I agree with your recommendation to take this seriously and pursue it further . 
I would also say that in the international community we are taken so seriously that we are invited to send observers to many parts of the world to observe elections . 
Between now and the next part-session in January I , amongst others , have been invited to observe elections in part of Africa to make sure that the principle of democracy and one person one vote is respected . 
Madam President , I refer to page 16 of the English version of the Minutes concerning the vote on my report yesterday . 
That is a slight understatement : it was 111 for and 184 against . 
I know we lost the vote , but it was not that bad . 
Secondly , I should like to ask you , Madam President , and the incoming President and the incoming Bureau , to look at the situation where a vote in progress is interrupted on the technical question of language versions not being complete . 
Thirdly , I should like Parliament 's services and the Commission 's services to undertake as quickly as possible the translation of the original directive into Swedish and Finnish , which was the substance of the complaint , so that we can deal with this report as soon as possible in Parliament , and with this important question of labour legislation . 
Finally , I wish to say to Mrs Lindholm , as I said to her afterwards , that I of course respect the principle of access in all languages . 
I have discovered that she not only speaks perfect English , but actually teaches English . 
She has read the report and fully supports it herself and was only making a point of principle . 
I must say it was unfortunate that she chose my report about which to make it . 
Mr President , I should like to congratulate you on your election . 
On a point of order , can you ensure that the ballot boxes are opened simultaneously rather than some being opened before others ? 
This issue caused some problems today between myself and some members of staff , and I do not want a repeat of this . 
The way we are going we will have no representation in the Bureau of the Netherlands , Ireland , Belgium , Luxembourg , Sweden or Austria . 
I would urge all Members of the House to ask themselves if that is a sensible way to conduct democracy in Europe ? 
It is not good enough ! 
Mr President , If I understood you correctly when you were talking about the electronic voting , you said that we can only vote in favour . 
Surely in a democratic society you can at least abstain ? 
Mr President , I can not recall any time in the past twelve-and-a-half years that I have been here that we have used this method for sorting out this particular problem . 
I can not recall it . 
That is the first point I would like to make . 
The second point I would like to make is this : on the last occasion this occurred , which was the last time we voted in this Chamber for the election of President and Vice-Presidents , we had to go for an exhaustive ballot . 
Therefore I see no reason why we should not go for an exhaustive ballot on this occasion . 
Consequently , I object to the very principle that you are proposing to the House . 
Secondly , the Minutes do not record that I objected to the procedure , as you requested , and you then ignored that objection . 
Mr President , I indicated clearly at the beginning that I wanted to speak . 
I want to make two important points . 
As far as Rule 110 is concerned , it is absolutely clear what the situation is . 
They are Rules that we have discussed over a long period of time and the question is really the interpretation of the Bureau as to what constitutes ` the next sitting ' . 
The next sitting is , in fact , today - the first occasion when we can deal with the matter . 
It is very clear in the Rules that Parliament decides . 
We all know that ` one person , one vote ' is absolutely central to the work of this Parliament and I have to say to you , Mr President - and I hope you will listen very carefully - that you are the fifth president of the European Parliament that I have raised this issue with . 
The other important point is that , at a great deal of public expense , this European Parliament sends representatives as international observers all over the world - to Africa and to Eastern Europe , for example . 
Only a week ago I , as the representative of the Socialist Group , Mr Stasi of the Group of the European People 's Party and Mrs André-Léonard of the Liberal Group , returned from the first multi-party legislative elections in Chad . 
Our main concern as observers was to make sure that there was no cheating and no one taking part in those elections voting more than once . 
Unless we are capable of implementing our own Rules , some of us in the European Parliament will call upon the international community , including the Joint Assembly of the Lomé Convention , to investigate the democratic practices in this Chamber itself . 
Mr President , I too would like to talk about Singapore , and I believe we should have had a separate debate on this important subject . 
I wish to raise in particular the cases of China and Taiwan . 
China would rightly complain if - after satisfactory economic negotiations - political objections were raised to its entry . 
The same logic must apply to Taiwan . 
It is unhealthy for the world 's trading arrangements to continue to exclude the Republic of China , because of the demands of the People 's Republic of China . 
The difference in this case between a ` Republic ' and a ` People 's Republic ' is like the difference between a jacket and a straitjacket . 
Of course we must bring the People 's Republic in too - as soon as certain basic conditions have been met . 
This would strengthen the WTO and help reform in China . 
Under President Clinton 's new China policy the American and European positions are much closer . 
We in the ELDR Group urge our negotiators to redouble their efforts to achieve a solution to these problems . 
And if they were not discussed in Singapore we would like to know why . 
Madam President , first of all I should like to say that in the field of the environment , at least , I welcome the aims of the Dutch presidency . 
I hope that during the six months of the Dutch presidency they will make progress with the fifth Environmental Action Programme , first of all by ensuring that the Council agreement of December is actually transmitted to Parliament so that we can begin work on the second reading . 
I hope that they will work to reach an agreement on both drinking and bathing water . 
We have already had the first reading in Parliament and I do not see any reason why they should not make progress . 
I am very hopeful that they can . 
Thirdly , I agree with them that implementation and enforcement of environment policy are tremendously important issues , but I would ask them not to reach an agreement at the first Environment Council but rather to wait until the second one so that they can have the benefit of consultation and discussion with Parliament on this very important subject . 
Fourthly , I hope that they will try to deal with the auto oil programme , again , not at the first Environment Council but at the second one , because we can help there . 
Lastly , I hope that they will recognize that we do not yet have the framework programme on water and that they will therefore encourage the Commission to reach agreement on that so that we can begin to work jointly . 
I wish them well for their six months in spite of the obstructionism of certain Member States in the Council . 
Mr President , I should like to congratulate Mr Cornelissen as rapporteur . 
I hope that this will not be the last report that he is going to do for the committee . 
I also welcome the Commissioner here this evening and thank the Commission for their proposals . 
However , there should be more common ground between the Commission and the European Parliament in our proposals . 
Mr Lüttge has concentrated on a single language . 
I would like to add to that the fact that there should be much greater compatibility between the computers and the various systems used by the national air traffic controllers . 
I accept ECAC 's proposal that there should be a common performance model with different systems . 
I hope that the Commissioner is not perhaps wilfully misunderstanding - not that I for a moment suggest that he might - what we in the European Parliament are proposing : that is , not a monolithic structure but simply a single system , but with multiple suppliers . 
There should be more in Europe of what we see in the United States : a single air transport management system , leaving each Member State to organize and run its own services , but having guidelines and budgets set jointly . 
The bottom line , however , for all of us who travel - not least the business community and leisure and tourism travellers - is that the investment required by the Member States is urgent . 
The increase in air transport and in those using our system , which is already overloaded , can not wait for these budgets to be fixed . 
I commend the proposals in Mr Cornelissen 's report to the House and hope that it will get full support . 
Mr President , I thought I was down to speak earlier but I see that the big transfer fee from the EPP to the Goldsmith Group got in first . 
The Council meeting was quite a mixed bag . 
There are some positive features which many Members have commented upon , in particular the introduction of satellite surveillance , along with the flexibility allowing the industry to roll on quotas into the next year and take them off quotas for the following year . 
This is very much welcomed by the industry . 
Industry felt that the proposals on which the Commission had based their original proposals were seriously flawed . 
The one area where I would take issue with the Commission in particular , though also with the Council , is the matter Mr Macartney alluded to concerning salmon . 
This issue will not go away . 
Some regions have been dumping salmon for ten years in the European Union and it is not a new issue . 
We have frequently had debates and discussions and passed resolutions ; the Commission reluctantly introduced a minimum import price a couple of years ago and then let it go after a time and did not reintroduce it . 
I would like to put it to the Commissioner that she lost the battle with her colleague Sir Leon Brittan on this because we understand that he is not very enthusiastic about dealing with the Norwegians and does not want to introduce restrictions . 
He is frightened it might cause problems under the EEA agreement while we in the Committee on Fisheries and many people in Parliament take a different view . 
Apart from that issue , if I were giving the Commissioner a mark for her endeavours at the Council meeting I would give her 6 out of 10 . 
Mr President , I rise on a point which I would like you to convey to the President of Parliament . 
By invitations sent out yesterday , we have just been invited to celebrate his presidency at a musical evening on Sunday evening when most Members will not be in Brussels . 
We would all have liked to have been there and as President of the Friends of Music in Parliament I would like to have had earlier notice . 
Perhaps you could convey the regret and apologies of Members who will not be present . 
Mr President , on page 14 of the minutes : the list of questions called . 
I tabled a question on working time specifically addressed to Commissioner Kinnock . 
This appears way down as Question No 100 , and not in the section addressed to Commissioner Kinnock . 
There may be a simple explanation , and this may be due to a little slip-up or mistake in the administration . 
I seek your assurance that this is not the case and I seek your help in getting this matter raised properly . 
It is important to recognize that non-road modes of transport experience disadvantages , not least through the inequality of distribution by mode and by type of use of infrastructure charges . 
Combined transport suffers particularly in this way and we , in the European People 's Party , accept that . 
The Commission proposal will continue to permit Member States , under the principle of subsidiarity , to select the form of aid most suitable and conforming to their national priorities . 
The proposals therefore allow the possibility of national aid for combined transport infrastructure for transfer facilities between modes and for specialized equipment for inter-modal transport . 
While the granting of aids for combined transport would be exempt from the strict authorization procedure under Article 93 ( 3 ) of the Treaty , Member States would be required to inform the Commission of aids granted in the form of an annual estimate at the beginning of each year and subsequently report at the end of the financial year . 
The attraction of the new regulation is that the bureaucracy required by both the Member States and the Commission will be reduced . 
While the European Union emphasizes combined transport , I hope that both combined transport and conventional freight operations will be supported by this measure . 
My group endorses the Commission proposal setting out the categories of aid which are legitimate with the aim of overcoming the particular handicaps experienced in the development of inter-modal or combined transport . 
It is understood that the aids will apply in the short term and will have a positive and beneficial effect on the development of combined transport . 
The proposal to extend Regulation 117/70 deserves Parliament 's support since it is just this type of aid to combined transport which we believe is in line with the European Union 's future transport policy . 
It is also a means of strengthening the position of railways and inland waterways in the European transport market . 
At the very least , until such time as the level of competition between the different modes of transport is reflected in the reality of grants and proposed harmonization conditions , these aids are a modest means of providing compensation in the interests of a sustainable transport policy . 
In conclusion , we congratulate the rapporteur on his report . 
Madam President , I refer to page 1 of yesterday 's Minutes . 
Both Mr Smith and I raised the question of the list for Question Time and the fact that the questions we had tabled to Commissioner Kinnock on transport were not included in the transport section . 
We wondered whether there had been a simple administrative blunder or whether there had been some political manoeuvre to prevent embarrassment for the United Kingdom Government . 
The President in the chair , Mr Imbeni , said he would report the matter to the Commission . 
Has the presidency had any news from the Commission about what happened to these questions ? 
Madam President , I was well aware who the Commissioner would be : I tabled the question on transport to Commissioner Kinnock , who is the Transport Commissioner . 
Now someone in this institution - or in one of the two institutions - decided not to refer it to Commissioner Kinnock . 
Mr President , I represent Somerset in North Devon , which is the cattle heartland of the UK , and what we do not know about beef and beef products is hardly worth knowing . 
We have been gravely hit by the recent crisis in confidence in this sector . 
That is why I welcome these Commission regulations and indeed Mr Papayannakis ' suggested amendments , because I feel they are essential to restore public confidence in the whole of the beef industry . 
My group favours an obligatory system of labelling . 
We believe that while geographical origin is important , it is certainly not the conclusive or definitive factor . 
What we want to see is the kind of things asked for in Mr Papayannakis ' Amendment No 4 on minimum standards . 
We want to see labelling that would cover also genetic engineering techniques and the use of stimulants in beef production , although here we prefer Mr Tamino 's Amendment No 29 to those put down by the rapporteur . 
It is important that the public be aware - and this is something Liberals have striven for in the European Parliament - of exactly what goes into the foodstuffs that they are buying . 
They have lost control of the industry upstream , where the feedstuffs manufacturers are concerned , and they have lost control of the industry downstream to the large food chains . 
Requirements that would help boost public confidence would also help farmers to regain control over this important industry . 
Therefore , Liberals in this House support the idea of an animal passport . 
Mr President , it is hardly surprising that a British Conservative would like to state a case as to why we voted against the Medina report this morning . 
If I had been a fly on the wall yesterday I could well have heard some people trying to make us believe that the British Government was trying to promote BSE in our country . 
The committee really needed some scientific instruments to help it to come to the right conclusions - perhaps a retrospectoscope , because that is what it has used by trying to look back and not recognize that this was a new disease and a new situation that had arisen . 
Let us all be very clear . 
Therefore we should look and see the situation in the United Kingdom itself : consumption is practically back to normal ; the beef industry is practically back to normal , and the measures that the government has taken in the United Kingdom have worked . 
One can not say that about the rest of Europe , and it is the lack of confidence that has created the problems . 
The report does not identify the causes of the disease . 
It only serves , as I say , to promote prejudices which are not backed by facts . 
It is very easy to knock , it is very easy to be a narker and always to complain , but to do something positive to cure the problems is entirely different . 
The production of animal protein seems to be the basis of the problem . 
We have followed the practice in the United States and they do not seem to have a BSE problem there . 
There are many issues I would like to address , but let me say this : Parliament seems to be ambivalent about what it is trying to do with Mr Hogg , the Minister . 
It says , on the one hand , that he had a legal requirement to come and yet the resolution just adopted states that the institutional agreement needs to be strengthened so that we can demand him to come . 
I would submit that there is not currently a legal base for that demand to happen . 
The President-in-Office referred to the work of the outgoing Irish presidency . 
Could he share with us his priorities during his tenure of office ? 
For example , the Irish President-in-Office was very keen on safe streets and proposed measures to make them safe for children as well as adults . 
I particularly welcome the cooperation we are going to see between the police and the courts , with an emphasis on training . 
I am particularly concerned that the Internet is being abused by both pornographers and paedophiles . 
If , for example , there is ever going to be a national register of known paedophiles within a Member State , would this also be shared between the other Member States ' authorities ? 
I would like to return to the subject of the Internet . 
I am sure the Minister will agree with me that the Internet at the present time is still in its infancy . 
We know that paedophiles are using the Internet . 
Would the President-in-Office agree that this is the ideal moment to establish a European Union and , indeed , a worldwide code of conduct with mandatory ability to cut off sources which allow paedophile material to be accessed via the Internet ? 
This is an opportunity which we really ought to take and I hope the Minister can give us some concrete assurances in this regard . 
I thank the President-in-Office for his very comprehensive answer on the general issues . 
I might say that I am not at all convinced that he has made out any good argument for discriminating against older people by limiting their age to 35 . 
I hope that when the IGC concludes - and the Dutch presidency will play a big part in this - there will be an anti-discrimination clause that makes this impossible in the future . 
My specific question related to the situation that now seems to be arising in one Member State - and I congratulate Ireland for taking this step - which has banned advertisements that imply age discrimination . 
What I want to know is this : if the Council is recruiting in Ireland - and it ought to be able to recruit in Ireland for jobs in the European institutions - has it considered how it is going to be able to recruit there if the Irish Government says that it will not allow age discrimination in advertisements in its papers ? 
How then is the Council going to attract people from Ireland into these jobs ? 
Does the President-in-Office not think that it would be better to take the Irish example as a lead and apply it throughout the Community , for then there would be no problem ? 
So my question really is : firstly - and you partly answered this - is the Council completely behind the monitoring centre , and secondly , will the Council make certain that the retox centres in national countries are given full support and that the quality of information coming from them is as good as can possibly be ? 
The amendments put forward by my colleague , Mrs Zimmermann , and others also go a long way to try and remove this particular form of discrimination . 
In answer to the last speaker and also to Mr Hory , you can not remove centuries of inequality by just turning around and saying that we are going to rely on the same men to give women justice . 
In the past 50 years we have seen women striding forward and pushing themselves forward to make sure these inequalities are removed . 
When Mr Hory first spoke , I thought that given the generous statements he made to Mrs Lindholm , he was going to come out very strongly in favour of removing these discriminatory barriers and going a certain way towards equal representation of women . 
But he turned around and struck at the very core of the report by saying that he could not support Amendments Nos 5 , 12 and 14 . 
Amendments Nos 5 , 12 and 14 are those amendments which actually say to the Commission : ' You will ensure that there is genuine equality in your ranks when you are recruiting personnel ' . 
That is why I believe that Amendment No 18 , which we have tabled in the name of the Socialist Group , should be supported by the House as a whole . 
The correct interpretation , as I understand it is ` Arbeitserfahrung ' , which is work experience . 
Can we ensure , Mr President , that you and others , including the staff secretariat check out the amendments as they are tabled to make sure they reflect the wishes of the Members that tabled them ? 
Mobile phones should be included , unlike what the previous speaker said . 
This is a growing market . 
I know that it is not growing at the same rate in all the Member States but , nevertheless , it is a developing market and will , I imagine , become more and more commonplace everywhere in the EU . 
So mobile phones should be included . 
This must also be a universal service . 
I have a certain interest here because I represent perhaps one of the remotest parts of the European Union - the Highlands and Islands of Scotland - 90 islands . 
The people in my islands have the right to expect the same access as anybody else , whether they come from a very populous country like the Netherlands or a big city . 
I do not see that at all . 
The mobile phone companies or organizations are very profitable . 
This is indeed a profitable segment of the industry and I do not see why we should not oblige it , before it is too late , to make this a universal service , with special conditions to help disabled , handicapped and blind people . 
People with a mobile phone should have the right to have an entry in a directory if they wish , with the same right not to be in the directory if they do not wish . 
So I hope that this House will support the principle that Imelda Read has so well explained of having a universal service . 
Mr President , I refer to the decision you have just made at the request of the rapporteur to put this off until March . 
Presumably he can not be here this afternoon . 
I should like to ask if the authors of these resolutions are leaving them on the table . 
I have received confusing information on this . 
This is because of the visit to Strasbourg by the Prime Minister of Chad , who has made specific offers to the European delegation that will be in Chad this weekend . 
Are the authors maintaining the resolution or taking my advice , which I spelled out in detail , that this should be withdrawn for a month ? 
Mr President , this is the on-going saga of leghold traps . 
It is a sorry tale of Commission misdemeanour . 
Members will recall that leghold traps are a particularly vicious way of trapping wild animals for use in the fur industry , a way which causes the animals extraordinary and unnecessary pain . 
Members will also recall that last year 's report on leghold traps by Carlos Pimenta , which called for their banning , was supported by a huge majority in this House . 
On 9 December of last year , the Environment Council followed our lead and demanded full implementation by the Commission . 
That was on 9 December . 
On 18 December the Commission flatly rejected that demand . 
The Pimenta report calls for humane trapping procedures and was cleverly written so as to avoid conflict with the European Union 's commitments under GATT and WTO . 
It even goes so far as to impose a ban on fur from animals caught in leghold traps and to allow for its lifting when agreement has been reached with third countries to stop leghold use . 
The European Parliament managed to strike a blow for the principle while giving third states ample room for manoeuvre . 
Yet we hear now that the Commission is considering proposing a new regulation which seeks to exempt Russia and Canada . 
I have written to President Santer and this morning I received a reply from him . 
The Commission must recognize that the question of leghold traps is an issue of animal welfare . 
This is not just about trade . 
The Commission can not allow principle to be subsumed in a desire to placate trading partners . 
It must have the courage of our democratic principles . 
Our Commissioner and our Commission must stop being the representative of the WTO in Europe and must start being the mouthpiece of the European Community in the WTO . 
They have their priorities the wrong way round . 
The Commission must realize what a hornet 's nest it has stirred up by its decision and I ask it to tell us today how it squares its decision with respect for democratic procedures and principles . 
I would like the Commission to tell this House why legislation it has passed is not being implemented and I would like the Commission to give this House the assurance that it will consult both Parliament and Council before adopting any international agreement on leghold traps . 
Lastly , I demand that the Commission this morning tell us clearly that there are no circumstances and nor will there be any in which it will seek to frame legislation that avoids the need to consult the European Parliament and avoids the need to observe the wishes of the Environment Council . 
I hope the Commission can give us these assurances this morning . 
Mr President , it is simply that I do not find my name anywhere , despite the fact that I signed in . 
You had better check the lists as well , please . 
Madam President , I wish , like other speakers , to take the opportunity to thank the rapporteurs and , in particular , Mr Katiforis for his detailed analysis of the problems facing Europe 's marine industry , the comprehensive approach he has taken to tackling these problems and his conclusions . 
However , there is a glaring inconsistency in Europe 's approach to the maritime industry . 
Every year this Parliament approves millions of ecus for the KONVER programme to assist small businesses to diversify from the defence industry into civilian production . 
But , at the same time , we penalize larger companies in the defence sector with over 230 employees that wish to diversify . 
One of these industries is naval shipyards . 
Due to the downturn in orders for warships these yards have to look elsewhere for work . 
If , however , these naval yards tender for civilian contracts within the European Union , they are immediately at a disadvantage due to the fact that they do not receive the same subsidy as civilian yards . 
How can we on one hand encourage diversification and on the other hand penalize firms which are attempting to diversify ? 
It is the economics of the insane . 
If we truly believe in diversification and changing from defenceorientated production to civilian production , then we must tackle this problem . 
I , therefore , would ask and request that this House support Amendment No 4 . 
Madam President , I would like to speak on the Commission communication on Europe 's maritime future . 
I am sure you will agree , Madam President , that since ` all the nice girls love a sailor ' , it is important that we nurture and support our maritime industries and , in particular , the seafarers and their training for which I would like to think that the British Government has set a positive example . 
I would like to throw down a challenge to Commissioner Bangemann and his colleagues today . 
We must ensure a level playing field throughout the European Union . 
I would urge the Commission to make sure that state aids to ports and ferry companies are phased out as far as possible . 
Currently there is no transparency in the application of state aids . 
I hope the Commissioner will agree that he must address this and that it can not be right that , for example , Stena/Sealink are actually making British seafarers redundant because the Dutch government , as Mr Jarzembowski mentioned earlier , is choosing to protect its own seafarers by giving a preferential tax rate . 
That has to be wrong . 
I would refer the Commissioner and the House to Mr Belleré 's opinion and in particular paragraphs 8 and 9 in which we call for free and fair competition between transport modes with all modes of transport fully bearing their own costs including external costs and where we call for free and fair competition to be encouraged between the Community ports and between maritime shipping lines . 
If the Commission does nothing else after today 's debate , I hope it will seek to establish a level playing field and seek to remove gross state aids such as those practised in Holland which I believe are grossly unfair . 
I support Mr Belleré 's opinion and , indeed , Mr Katiforis ' report . 
I thank the Commissioner for that very interesting and , I am sure , correct answer . 
Many of us in this House , however , are concerned that whilst maybe certain DGs within the Commission are interested in trade negotiations , it appears that DG VI in particular - the agriculture directorate - is perhaps hanging back a little bit . 
The feeling is that we really have to take a major step to try to ensure that reform of the CAP is seen to be continuing , and that is not highly apparent at the present time . 
It would be helpful if the Commission were to take an initiative fairly quickly to make the agriculturalists and the farmers in the European Community aware of the fact that these negotiations will be coming and that if we do not take the correct steps to reform the CAP before those negotiations we will be on the wrong foot and on the defensive . 
I should just finish by saying that I hope the Commissioner understands this and that DG VI will therefore be fully involved in all the negotiations that he is going to be undertaking . 
Very briefly , firstly , my question was not specifically about recruitment policy but policy towards existing personnel . 
I should like to give the Commissioner a hypothetical example : if a 62-year-old , registered blind official was working in an external office - in other words he is only three years from retirement - and he is comfortable in that office , can find his way around about it and there are no complaints about the quality of his work , would he think it a reasonable policy towards disabled people to consider compulsory transfer of that individual back to Brussels at that stage of his career ? 
The Commissioner mentioned making Member States ' buildings accessible to disabled persons . 
Would he be in favour of having discussions with the other institutions at Community level to ensure that all our buildings - parliamentary buildings , the new Council building , and any agencies the Commission has - would be able to be accessed easily and speedily by disabled persons ? 
On his recruitment policy , would he look again at the problem of discrimination on the grounds of age , which has been a considerable difficulty ? 
Would he enter into discussions on the recruitment policies on ageism as well ? 
Mr President , I wish to deal with another matter which comes under your authority , namely the use of the Chamber and the premises associated with it . 
In the corridor I noticed a display of photographs of personalities , some of whom are called famous , one or two of whom I would call infamous and one whom I would call thoroughly discreditable . 
I refer to the photograph of Robert Maxwell . 
Robert Maxwell was responsible for stealing millions of pounds of pensioners ' funds in my country . 
He is responsible for conning his way into the confidence of highly placed politicians and receiving their support at a time when he enjoyed authority . 
He is responsible for the suppression of free speech in the press of my country by the use of litigation . 
So I would ask you , Mr President , to consider whether Robert Maxwell 's photograph should be removed from the photographs outside the Chamber . 
A Member may be allowed to draw your attention to any failure to respect Parliament 's Rules of Procedure . 
A request to raise such a point shall take precedence over all other requests to speak . 
I would like to know under what Rule Mrs Green spoke and was called to speak . 
I would also like to know why when Rule 126 with the request to suspend the sitting was raised , it was not immediately taken and put to the vote ; and why , when Rule 101 ( 3 ) was abused by the people in the gallery , not only disrupting the dignity of this House but then continuing to conduct television interviews in the gallery and make telephone calls on mobile phones which are strictly illegal in this building , you did not immediately evict them before the vote was taken under Rule 101 ( 3 ) . 
I would also like to know why a colleague of mine who was trying to exercise his right under Rule 127 was not allowed to speak and why you , Sir , did not vacate the chair under Rule 111 and immediately suspend the sitting until order was restored . 
My point is that the way you have conducted business in this Chamber today was correct . 
Mrs Green spoke in favour of the resolution which was put to this Chamber . 
You then allowed someone from the other side to speak and that speaker opposed what Mrs Green had said . 
It was not outrageous . 
Anyone who has been on picket lines or involved in industrial disputes will know that this was not outrageous . 
So , Mr President , you conducted business quite correctly . 
You did not allow Mr Giansily to comment because you wanted to proceed with the business . 
I just wanted to say that the way you have conducted the business today has been to your credit . 
I would ask Members of this House to remember that they are here as politicians and should not be so thick-skinned as to be unaware of the concerns of ordinary working people who may be put on the dole queue as the result of the whims of multinationals who care not a jot about their livelihoods . 
Madam President , we face a situation of the utmost gravity . 
Neither President Berisha nor his government are blameless in the existing situation . 
As you know , the OSCE/ODIHR report criticized the recent elections . 
Everyone agrees the failure of the investment pyramid-schemes has been a tragic occurrence for numerous Albanians who have lost their life savings . 
I remind you that one of the main reasons behind the problems arising in the town of Vlorë was the impounding of 100 high-powered speedboats , many used in trans-Adriatic smuggling operations . 
The EU must show understanding of the situation . 
More than ever there is a need for a cohesive approach amongst all Member State governments and international organizations to this problem . 
President Berisha has shown some belated wisdom in bringing an all-party coalition government , and now a socialist prime minister , into office . 
The implications of civil war and escalating violence are of immense and imminent proportions , not just because of Albania itself , but because Albania is a powder keg . 
In Kosovo , already a tense situation , over 80 % of the population are of Albanian origin . 
In Macedonia a substantial minority are Albanian . 
Madam President , to conclude : we need to see a cohesive , balanced and strong approach to the plight of Albania . 
Disunity , delay and weakness can set the Balkans alight . 
We can not allow another Bosnia through lack of resolve : we must set up a crisis mechanism ; we must have a single body for dealing with the situation . 
We hope to see action upon these things . 
We are actually going to try and help the developing countries ! 
This is very laudable because , after all , we are exporting synthetic drugs to these countries , and for once we are not blaming them for exporting to us . 
But then I know , because I have had something to do with drugs , and I have recently been talking to Mr Gelbard , a Secretary in the State Department in the United States , they have spent US$ 1 , 000m on crop eradication in Bolivia . 
They have not yet touched Peru because they have not had much cooperation . 
And then I see that all this great work which is to take place from 1998 to the year 2000 is going to cost ECU 30m . 
I just ask you to compare the US$ 1 , 000m which has been spent by the United States on crop eradication in one country , with the ECU 30m which is going to be spent over the period 1998 to 2000 under all these plans which are so well drawn up , so carefully thought through . 
What are we doing ? 
Are we serious ? 
I can not believe we are serious if we are spending that sort of money . 
I have no more to say . 
Yesterday I raised the question of Robert Maxwell 's infamous picture in the outside gallery . 
I sought assurances at that time that the President and Quaestors would investigate the matter . 
Can you advise this House why Robert Maxwell 's picture still remains outside this Chamber ? 
A known crook still has his picture in the frame outside the Chamber ! 
Mr President , I would just like to support what Mr von Habsburg has said . 
Mr President , I would just like to pass on my good wishes to the Bureau for the taking the enlightened decision to remove the photograph of Robert Maxwell from Parliament 's premises . 
It is just a pity that it took them twenty-four hours to do so . 
Mr President , I have two points to make . 
It seems extraordinary to me that a political group can put down an amendment and then ask for a split vote on their own amendment which happened on Amendment No 9 in that final vote . 
Could that be looked at by the Bureau ? 
It leads to a lot of confusion . 
Secondly , we all admire your presidency . 
The rapporteurs who get concise reports to the House which do not take up a great deal of voting time deserve congratulations but maybe some of the others do not . 
Madam President , we are delighted that we have this opportunity of debating this issue today . 
We are at a stage in the development of the peace negotiations in the Middle East which is causing great concern . 
I am sure there are many who are greatly disturbed to hear that the Israeli Government has decided to go ahead with the building of the settlement in East Jerusalem . 
All settlement building , particularly in this sensitive case of Jerusalem , risks damaging the peace process and preempting the final status negotiations that we all want to see concluded in a successful way . 
We should urge the Israeli Government , therefore , not to proceed with these plans as we need to get a direction which is more positive . 
We can not expect a positive outcome to some of these negotiations while decisions which are seen to be confrontational are taking place . 
Confrontation is not what we want to achieve . 
We want to make sure that the peace is re-established and can move forward rapidly . 
That is not happening at the present time . 
Mr Arafat has decided that he wants to take up the cudgels and combat what he sees as some difficult situations in East Jerusalem . 
Furthermore , we see even worse evidence today in the exchange of letters between King Hussein of Jordan and Mr Netanyahu , the Prime Minister of Israel . 
That is a very serious development . 
If one reads the correspondence as it has been published in some of the newspapers today , we are heading for something really quite serious . 
Mr President , while I thank the Commissioner for his answer I would like him to give us a little more information - if I could tease some out of him . 
Yesterday , according to the press , there was a meeting of the Advisory Committee in which - it is alleged - several Member States decided not to support the Commission 's proposal for action : as a tax of about 12-15 % in particular was mentioned . 
I should like to ask the Commissioner what actually happened at the meeting yesterday . 
Secondly , he says that no Member State has made any representation . 
Would he also confirm or deny that the Government of Norway has made representations , and would he confirm or deny that there was no representation from either Raymond Robertson , the Scottish Office Minister responsible for fishing , or Michael Forsyth , the Scottish Secretary of State ? 
Has he had any contact with Mr Robertson since his abortive meeting and contretemps with the Commissioner for Fisheries , Mrs Bonino ? 
I would like some answers to these questions , please . 
We simply can not afford to let that happen . 
I would like to thank the Dutch presidency . 
This is the first time we have had official confirmation that there will be no discussions , and no agreement , on the question of technical measures . 
It is rather unfortunate that Parliament has been pushing ahead with the Adam report and held emergency meetings only on Monday of this week , being told it was to meet a deadline from the Council . 
Yet again , the presidencies , in particular the Dutch , have treated Parliament with a rather cavalier attitude . 
If the intention all along - perhaps in some way connected with the United Kingdom election - was not to have it on the agenda , then I am disappointed . 
Would the Dutch presidency confirm that what might happen in the UK elections has not motivated them in withdrawing this item from the agenda of next week 's meeting ? 
Madam President , I think it most unfortunate that Mr Baldarelli has proposed referral back to committee at this stage . 
My understanding is that there are some technical difficulties on compensation to the Italian fishing fleet which is a separate issue between the Italian Government and the European Commission . 
The main issue , as far as we and Parliament are concerned , is whether we are going to have any influence whatsoever over the Commission 's proposal and the Council 's decision . 
If we do not take a decision today , this Parliament will be acting as a eunuch because the Council can move forward and take the decision without the opinion of Parliament . 
I , therefore , am afraid I have to oppose Mr Baldarelli 's proposal because the interests of Parliament are greater than the issue itself . 
Mr President , firstly , I wish to congratulate you on being in the Chair two days in a row , which must be a record . 
Mr President , as rapporteur for the ACP Joint Assembly on regional cooperation within the Lomé countries , I give a very warm welcome to this excellent and timely report by Mr Needle . 
It is a good basis for discussion , hopefully on a partnership basis with ACP nations . 
The strength of many African states can only be developed on the basis of good economic regional cooperation leading possibly to political integration at a later stage . 
Africa has to accept it has to help itself ; salvation is in trade not aid . 
But we in the EU must assist in building that new economic strength through regional structures . 
Regional cooperation , as has already been seen , can help with conflict prevention and I believe it is only the African nations themselves who can bring about peace and stability by influencing their neighbours . 
If the Commission is moving towards post-Lomé regional aid as the new way forward , the fundamental question must be what is the make-up of those regions and how can we focus . 
Africa is littered with regions and subregions , with many nations being intertwined with a number of regions . 
This to my mind can not continue and I hope the Commission , in cooperation with Lomé countries , is seriously looking at a feasible structure that is historically , socially and institutionally a grouping that gives a sound basis to work from . 
If we do that I believe that all the detail in this report can follow . 
If we look at Southern Africa we see that the driving force for the launching of SADC was a determination by the front-line states to cooperate , to show solidarity in a determination to get rid of the brutality and the violence of the apartheid regime . 
I am sure this was helped by the positive response we saw from various parts of the world , and especially led by the European Parliament , that decided , against the wishes of many Member State governments to support the United Nations ' isolation of South Africa and to set up a special fund using our budget provisions here . 
Support from this region for southern Africa is something that could be looked at for Nigeria , the Western Sahara , and Papua/New Guinea . 
We know that the driving force , that successful economic cooperation in western Europe was a determination by a small number of nation states that the history of violence , the history of mass cemeteries and concentration camps would not continue and we could do something about this . 
And yet the French authorities are now insisting on breakdowns for small claims and insisting that claims be submitted in French . 
I welcome the assurance from the Commissioner that he will monitor all plants . 
I suggest that he look at the Hunterston nuclear power station where a reactor had to be shut down in March of this year . 
Hunterston is in my constituency . 
I do not know if it has been brought to his attention in his capacity as Commissioner responsible for energy but perhaps he would look at what happened there with the United Kingdom authorities . 
Can I take it that the Commission is actively pursuing the matter at the IGC of treating this as part of the Treaty ? 
This is all I would like confirmed . 
Should that fail to come about , what will the Commission then do ? 
For some reason or other , at very short notice , this has been changed to the 3-6 June . 
This is very disruptive to Members who had already made arrangements to go on that delegation . 
I gather that the decision has been taken without consultation of the Bureau of the Israeli delegation or with any members of the delegation . 
I would ask you , as President here today , to have an investigation into why this has happened because not only is it disruptive to Members here but it is also extremely discourteous to our Israeli hosts . 
My question was next . 
I have sat here for almost an hour and a half and waited patiently for my question . 
Given the importance of this issue for the United Kingdom , particularly the North-East of Scotland , which is Mr Macartney 's constituency - he would have asked a supplementary question - , it is a pity that we did not get to it . 
I would like an assurance that we shall not have a repetition of this in the future . 
Mr President , there are a hundred million people in developing countries who depend for their very basic survival on fishing - not just for their livelihood but their survival . 
This can not be right . 
For next year 's budget we are going to be reducing the PESCA projects by 50 % . 
And here in our own Union , where there are tremendous problems of decommissioning and areas suffering from unemployment because of constraints and the need to conserve stocks , we are reducing expenditure while at the same time we are spending a third of our budget on commercial agreements . 
The Community has its priorities wrong and we need a new fisheries policy . 
There are problems with the Crampton report . 
Some unhelpful amendments were tabled at the final meeting of the Committee on Fisheries . 
There are some small difficulties , which result in the kind of mishmash which Mr Cunha mentioned . 
But the report offers a way forward and we have to seize the opportunity for a new development in the fisheries area . 
Mr President , you are to be congratulated on starting the vote at 12 noon . 
There are a number of colleagues who are not yet here and there are a number of people who are still listening to the bells that are ringing in the corridor . 
You know I normally agree with you in this Chamber , but you answered the speaker before me that this was the normal way we did our voting . 
I have to advise that is not the normal way in which we do our voting . 
I may have missed something . 
Normally , the way we vote is paragraph by paragraph , recital by recital . 
That did not happen on this occasion . 
Perhaps you may wish to reconsider your reply to the speaker before me . 
Following on from the last speaker , I think you will agree , Mr President , that the way we took the last five reports after the Titley report was the way we normally vote in this Chamber . 
Mr President , I just wish to rise because I spoke twice to Mr Martin this morning on the way he conducted the vote . 
I can fully understand the way he conducted the business this morning given that the Greens had called for a roll-call vote on every paragraph and on every single amendment that was tabled . 
I can understand his method of expediting the business of the Chamber . 
However that is not the normal way we carry out our business . 
Mr President , I would just like to thank Mr Caudron for his clarification of the situation because it was difficult for members of the Israeli delegation to find out what was actually happening . 
It is unfortunate , perhaps , that in certain circumstances the president of a delegation has to change the dates of the delegation to suit himself rather than the delegation as a whole , when there are vice-presidents and the Bureau who could have stood in for the 24 hours that was necessary . 
Fortunately the risk to most of these air passengers from transport accidents is extremely low and I certainly took great comfort from the impressive statistics which the rapporteur produced to prove that . 
But when disaster strikes , there needs to be an adequate system of insurance protection which entitles consumers to full and fair compensation and gives access to funds within a short time to meet urgent commitments . 
Up to now the obligations of air carriers , as the rapporteur said , have been governed basically by the 1929 Warsaw Convention . 
That is quite old - in fact , it is as old I am and that is quite old . 
Obviously this needs updating and many of the voluntary agreements amongst the European and other airlines have recognized this . 
The regulation brings these together and improves them considerably . 
The original proposals which the Commission put forward have been greatly strengthened by the amendments carried in the European Parliament in the first reading , as , indeed , the common position of the Council indicates when it states that it takes on board most of these amendments , most of them supported by the Commission itself . 
The Committee on Transport and Tourism and the two rapporteurs can be well pleased at a job well done . 
I particularly welcome the fact that the regulation waives all financial limits of liability , where the airline is at fault . 
This is necessary to keep pace with the vastly increased amounts being granted by the courts in these circumstances . 
Even in the case where the carrier did everything to avoid an accident , there is now to be a strict level of liability and in fact , there are also proposals for advance payments in the case of death . 
These are very much needed and have been a strengthening of the regulation . 
Of course these provisions apply only to European Union airlines , but , I am pleased to say , that non-Community carriers are obliged to inform passengers of their conditions when they purchase their tickets . 
Finally , as I said , this is an improvement . 
But as European passengers are flying more and more outside Europe and new , and sometimes dodgy , airlines spring up , we must do everything we can in the way of striking new agreements with other parts of the world to see that this protection for air passengers is extended even wider . 
Madam President , I regret that a matter of such sensitivity to air travellers is taking place at such a late hour . 
But I would like to thank everybody for staying on this evening , especially the interpreters and , obviously , the Commissioner , as well as fellow speakers . 
The Group of the European People 's Party welcomes the Commission draft regulation and I would like to congratulate Mr Gonzalez Triviño , the rapporteur , on his work in this regard . 
It is important to recognize that the common position reflects the main objectives of the proposal . 
Its main points are extremely important : to update the levels of liability for the carriers , recognizing the lower risks involved in air travel today but the higher level of damages paid to victims in transport accidents . 
It is important to waive the financial limits of liability where an airline is proved to be at fault but to impose a strict level of liability up to the equivalent of 100 , 000 special drawing rights . 
The most important thing is that non-EU carriers must inform passengers of their conditions of carriage at the time of purchase of the ticket . 
The proposed regulation is therefore extremely welcome in this regard . 
We commend this proposal to the House and we are particularly grateful to our rapporteur Mr Gonzalez Triviño for the excellent work and for the Commissioner for his patience in being with us here this evening . 
Mr President , I am glad that Mr Macartney has raised this matter . 
It is an important issue of the standing of this House and its relationship with the Commission . 
The Committee on Fisheries and Parliament have always taken the view that we should stand together supporting the European Union in this dispute with Norway . 
For the Commission to enter into any negotiations and do a backroom deal , not considering the full implications for the European Union , is not very clever . 
And we should ask the Commission to make a statement at the next part-session so that we can understand fully what has been going on in the background . 
Mr President , on the same issue , the Socialist Group supports the other groups in demanding a statement from Commissioner Brittan . 
For the last few months I have been trying to find out exactly when he is going to divulge the contents of the study his department has been carrying out . 
There have been leaks in the press to the effect that he was recommending a duty on Norwegian salmon imports but that he is now getting cold feet about going down that road . 
He seems to prefer the old road of minimum import price which has not worked in the past as we have seen in this Parliament . 
So , as Mr Provan has suggested , I hope Sir Leon Brittan will make a full and frank statement to the House on Monday or Tuesday of the next part-session in Strasbourg on the current state of play on this very serious issue , which affects thousands of jobs in Scotland , Ireland and other parts of the Community . 
Social security : workers moving within the EU 
Mr President , could I add my congratulations to Commissioner Kinnock on bringing forward this proposal for a directive . 
Some credit is also due to the former Member for Merseyside , the late Ken Stewart , who as an ex-seaman worked tirelessly on the Committee on Transport and Tourism to try to improve maritime safety . 
I was particularly concerned when the Estonia disaster occurred to discover that a very good friend of Parliament 's , Lennart Pettersson , former chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Swedish Parliament , who had been actively involved with this Parliament during Sweden 's accession talks , was one of the victims . 
The scope of that disaster shows the need for a general tightening up by keeping passenger lists so that the number of passengers on board is known . 
I am also concerned from a Scottish dimension . 
Commissioner Kinnock will be familiar with Caledonian McBrayne and Western Ferries . 
Indeed , I believe he even took the wheel when going to Dunoon on one occasion . 
Nevertheless , they are concerned about the provisions concerning the length of journey , in particular on the run to Barra , which will be encompassed by the directive . 
But I think we can persuade them that it is in their interests . 
The information which the Commissioner has asked for is not very great and with computer technology this should be manageable . 
On the matter of the Channel Tunnel , it is regrettable that last week Eurotunnel cancelled a visit . 
This was a pity as we could have had a useful dialogue on the implications of the Watts report for Eurotunnel . 
Generally speaking , the directive is a good one and Mr Watts ' proposals strengthen it in many respects . 
Mr President , it is all very well for you to say that you are not going to take account of it , but when somebody genuinely makes a mistake with the electronic voting system and corrects it straightaway , surely that should be taken into account . 
Mr President , in yesterday 's Minutes my name is not recorded as being here . 
Would it be possible to record my presence here yesterday ? 
Mr Macartney and I , at the sitting of 29 May , raised the question of whether the Commission would be prepared to make a statement about the agreement which it was negotiating and which this House had not seen . 
Mr President , I would thank Mrs Randzio-Plath for her radical rethink on the VAT system which is a very cumbersome arrangement and does not seem to have been designed for the Single Market . 
The move towards a definitive VAT system based on the principle of origin will be a long process so I would suggest that we should not forget that we can improve matters in the short term . 
Mrs Randzio-Plath 's explanatory statement says that tax exemptions currently permitted on social grounds should be replaced with a zero tax rate . 
I see a warning light flashing here because such a move would change the legal tax basis for organizations that are exempt and possibly allow the imposition of the reduced rate or a standard rate in the future . 
I would urge everyone to support the amendments . 
Mr President , I would like to build on what Mr Cox said earlier , on behalf of my Group , about the debate on monetary union and the debate on fiscal union . 
I would like to raise the problem of our relative lack of understanding of , and failure to study , some of the principles of indirect taxation . 
Certainly , in my own country , the government is extending exemptions from VAT to services which were once in the public sector and are now in the private sector . 
I am aware of similar problems in France and Italy . 
The Commission has indeed put some of these questions to the Court of Justice for resolution . 
I propose , and my Group proposes through amendments to the Fourçans and Randzio-Plath reports , the establishment of an independent organization which would bring together academics , industry practitioners , Commission officials and national government officials in a wider and informal context to discuss different VAT practices and to build a consensus on this . 
I hope that the House will feel able to support these amendments so that we may have a wider discussion on the very principles of indirect taxation before we proceed further with the details . 
Mr President , I will not bother congratulating Mr Lamfalussy and the Commission because I think they have had enough for one morning . 
I should like to speak on the report on VAT . 
A VAT system based on taxation in the country of origin would seem to be the best method available to reduce the scope for fraud . 
The goal of the single European market is one which this Parliament is striving to achieve , but that also brings forward problems in the harmonization of taxation . 
In the field of value added tax this , on the face of it , would create innumerable problems . 
Cultural differences have led to different rates on the same items in different Member States . 
So , should we harmonize all levels of VAT ? 
I believe that is not necessary . 
As my colleague , Mrs Randzio-Plath , said , harmonization should only occur where it is necessary and can be effective . 
Mr President , nobody needs to tell the Commissioner that we in this Parliament listen as closely to him as he listens to us . 
It is important that we have this synergy , because the blockage is obviously in the Council of Ministers . 
For a number of years now Parliament 's position on tourism has been quite clear and we are becoming increasingly frustrated because , regrettably , many in the Council are not prepared to look at the opportunities which this Parliament has suggested to the Commissioner to mop up some of the unemployment Mr Harrison has just referred to . 
We must keep trying to find a way through the maze . 
It seems extraordinary that the Council refuses to endorse the Philoxenia programme , although we have agreed with the Council within the budget the amount necessary to promote the programme . 
How can the Council take such decisions , either budgetarily or from a policy point of view ? 
The two are not compatible . 
The main issue which the Commissioner has correctly identified and which is in the main part of this question is what we should do to get tourism recognized within the Treaty . 
We must have an independent and welldifferentiated common policy with a proper legal basis , in other words a chapter within the revised Treaty . 
The Commissioner must push for that . 
Any advice on ways in which we can help him will be gratefully received , because the Commission is obviously very important in helping to push the Member States on the revision of the Treaty and to achieve what we have to achieve . 
We are looking to the Commissioner to deliver . 
Mr President , I tabled a similar question but for some reason it was put way down on the list . 
It should have been taken with Mr Cassidy 's question as it is on the same issue . 
This is the second month that this has happened . 
I heard the Commissioner with some interest . 
Does he not think there is some hypocrisy here in talking about a flexible labour market while politicians are going around the world saying no-one will have a job for life and that people will have to adapt and have several careers ? 
In their own backyard the Commission are openly practising this job for life approach and , if you do not get on the bottom rung of the ladder then there really is a block on you . 
Is not hypocrisy being preached within the Commission when they are saying one thing to the general public about unemployment and about the economy , and yet , in actual practice , they are doing the complete opposite . 
When are they going to match their rhetoric with their actions within the Commission itself ? 
Similarly , on the IGC , is there not something wrong with the Commissioner proposing a non-discrimination clause on ageism at the IGC while at the same time the Commission and the institutions are practising what they are trying to abolish ? 
I do not know if you know , but Parliament voted in February to delete the reference to age limits from the Annex to the Staff Regulations . 
I hope you will do the same thing in the Commission . 
I find it surprising that anybody should be justifying an age limit by the fact that there are too many people applying . 
I can not imagine that any business in this world would apply that criteria . 
I would like to join those who express some amazement that those of us who have to meet the public boast about the non-discrimination and the law on that subject within the Union . 
And yet we have had really amazingly blatant and naked justification for a system which imposes effectively a ban on people who are very often experienced . 
I noted some of the justifications : young people would be happy , loyal and have a good career . 
Why does that not equally apply to someone over 50 ? 
Indeed , they may be happier and more loyal because they would probably appreciate it and bring experience to bear . 
We are not asking the Commission to stop recruiting young people , we are asking it not to put a ban on recruiting older people . 
I do not understand how the Commission can possibly go on with this policy . 
Is there any timetable it has in mind when it is going to stop it ? 
It is nothing new for this to happen . 
What I am concerned about is , while Commissioners Flynn and Wulf-Mathies are fiddling with the rules , the dole queues in Sweden and elsewhere are getting longer and longer . 
It is small comfort to the unemployed workers in Sweden to know that the Commissioners are studying the problem . 
I do not think this is good enough . 
Would the Dutch presidency look at the change in the structural funds policy when they come to redraft the rules , or would they assist Luxembourg and the United Kingdom , by writing in some kind of guarantee in structural funds to obviate much of this development and try and make sure that there is proper worker consultation and work involvement ? 
On Tuesday I raised the matter of Norwegian salmon and the need for the Commission to make a statement to this House . 
As a delegation from the Norwegian Parliament is here today ... 
Mr President , on Tuesday when I raised the matter of the need for a statement on Norwegian salmon from the Commission - the European Parliament being the only body Sir Leon Brittan has not consulted - the President said he would pass the matter on to the Commission . 
I would like to know if Sir Leon Brittan is prepared to come out of his cloister in the Commission and communicate with Parliament the terms of the agreement he has signed with the Norwegian Government . 
Under the rules of the Treaty the Commission is duty bound to consult with Parliament on the aspects of this Treaty . 
Today a parliamentary delegation from Norway is visiting Parliament and wishes to discuss the matter with us . 
As a lover of music like myself you would have been very pleased with the entertainment which was provided this afternoon in the foyer of the Palais . 
Further entertainment in the Festival of Music will be held in Orangerie Concert Hall tonight starting at 8.30 p.m. 
I hope and trust that all Members and all members of staff will make every effort to attend . 
There are a number of alterations to the original documents but the vast majority of them , as Mr Cox pointed out , are to do with deadlines . 
We will also be supporting the amendment to the effect that in any future review procedure will not be on the basis of an indefinite open-ended extension of the exemptions . 
The whole question of excise duty , whether it be on mineral oil , tobacco or alcohol is one which this Parliament must face up to . 
For too long we have shut ourselves off from reality , we have not faced up to the problems . 
For not to do so would be for us to condone the worst practices currently existing within the single market . 
That is true for mineral oils , it is true for tobacco and it is also true for alcohol . 
For the Parliament to overcome this , we must break out of our parochial views from our regional or national areas and consider the wider implications . 
The reports on tobacco and alcohol will be discussed later this year . 
Looking about , this is the year of change . 
For the first time in eighteen years we now have a Labour government in Britain . 
Madam President , looking at the record of voting for yesterday , for some unknown reason - and I am usually pretty diligent about these matters - there are three votes where I am not recorded as having voted . 
I did vote on every vote yesterday . 
Madam President , this is a very technical but important report since we are dealing with the question of food safety and hygiene . 
Only within the last couple of months scientists in Germany have discovered a strange strain in salmon . 
There was an article in a Netherlands newspaper last month that said : not the mad cow , now the mad salmon . 
They have allegedly found a strain in the brain of the salmon that is similar to that which caused the tragedy with BSE . 
It is important , therefore , that we keep institutes such as the Torry Institute and that we ensure that food hygiene in fish is of the highest possible standard . 
I support this report on behalf of the Socialist Group . 
Mr President , I am glad we are debating Mr Macartney 's report today . 
It seems extraordinary to me that , when it drew up its original proposal , there was no provision for making this kind of very minor change affecting one Member State without the need for a full consultation process . 
Having said that , I recognize what Mr Macartney and Mr McMahon said about it causing a very great deal of dislocation and upset to those involved in Scotland . 
I declare an interest , being chairman of part of an organization that had to take on some of the staff involved in what was the Torry Research Station . 
My chief concern - and I wonder if at some stage we will get an answer from the Commission - is how the new arrangements which the President of the Commission has announced for food safety and the monitoring of food safety will relate to other parts and other agencies within the European Community ? 
How will this new food agency relate to what may well be a new food standards agency in the United Kingdom ? 
What control will it have over organizations such as the Torry Research Station which is now split between three or four different agencies ? 
The linkage between the European Community and the Member States is going to be vital for the future and we do not yet know how this relationship is going to take place . 
What she read out to the House was contained in the press release which the Commission issued after the negotiations . 
Time and time again some of us in this House , particularly in the Committee on Fisheries , are told after the event . 
Under Article 90 of the Rules of Procedure of this House , the Commission is duty bound to consult with us on international agreements . 
This House has the right of dissent from these agreements . 
Is the Commission going to bring forward something in writing ? 
Yesterday , for example , we had in Parliament a Norwegian delegation discussing this . 
Those on the European side were somewhat handicapped in that they did not have before them the evidence which the Commissioner has just read before this House . 
We have been ignored and slighted ; we have read about what has been happening in the newspapers . 
It is not good enough for the European Parliament , which was responsible for significant agreements . 
Neither the Rex Committee nor the Committee on Fisheries have had a major exposition on this matter by Sir Leon Brittan whereas some other committees have had some discussion . 
The Commission has to learn some lessons from this issue . 
I am leaving the question of the dangers and problems created for the Scottish and Irish industries to others in this House . 
I want to concentrate on the comitology aspect . 
Thank you , Mr President , and thank you , Commissioner , for your statement . 
I would like to congratulate Alan Macartney for his dexterity in keeping this matter before you as a Commission and making sure that we got a statement today . 
Alan Macartney deserves our thanks too . 
Madam Commissioner , you have just said to us that the producers in the European Union seem to be relatively happy with the outcome of the decisions that have been taken by the Commission and Norway . 
Well they would be would not they ? 
Anything would be better than what they have been facing in the recent past . 
They were faced with bankruptcy and anything was going to be a relief to them . 
I do not know that the statement that we hear from you is really going to be best for the future of salmon producers within the European Community . 
There is nothing to stop the Norwegian Government still assisting their producers and making an even more unlevel playing field . 
You then say that there are going to be tight enforcement procedures . 
That is where all the problems have actually arisen . 
I hope that you will follow through on the tight enforcement procedures and make sure that does not happen in future . 
My great concern is that Norway has had the advantage of expanding its salmon farming quite considerably in recent years . 
We now recognize , as your report has done , that there was some undermining of the European market and the Norwegians were able to gain market share when our own producers did not have that opportunity . 
I am now concerned for the future that those salmon producers in Norway have reached such a size and economic value that they are in a very strong position to start buying up some of the companies in the peripheral areas of the European Community . 
If that were to happen it would be a travesty and the European Commission would be indicted for allowing that to happen . 
I wonder if you would care to comment on the use of the Euro by international companies in the European Union . 
In those countries which have the right to opt out , or which may not be eligible at the start of monetary union , do you foresee large international companies using the Euro in practice and for accountancy needs , thus allowing the Euro to evolve in those countries as a recognized currency ? 
Will the Commission be making sure there is a legal base for that to happen ? 
Mr President , I should also like to join in the congratulations to Mrs Fontaine . 
She must feel as if she is receiving a bouquet of flowers . 
She dealt with this matter in committee very well . 
She united the committee at the end of the final vote , with the exception of two abstentions and Mr Cassidy voting against the overall committee decision . 
I think it would need a miracle by the Archangel Gabriel to persuade Mr Cassidy to come round to our position . 
The 1989 original directive has already been very well explained in this House . 
The United Kingdom has the highest rate of takeovers and takeover battles throughout the European Union . 
There were something like 1 , 500 in the years 1995/96 . 
It also has the excellent reputation because of the takeover panel of having knowledge of these particular matters . 
We accept that and the proposal goes a long way to accepting that . 
In Article 6 it says that the supervisory authority can be a non-regulatory body . 
The takeover panel in Britain has been catered for with that amendment . 
Therefore , the Socialist Group takes the view that it is in the interest of competition policy in this field that we have some form of regulatory law in these matters . 
Concerning the Commission 's hostility to Amendment No 11 , in 1995-96 in my country alone 12 , 500 job losses were due to takeovers and mergers . 
Amendment No 12 calls for those people who have funds or shares in the companies involved through their occupational pension funds - a growing number of people throughout Europe - to be involved in any final decision on these matters . 
I understand the Commission is concerned about this . 
If it wants to come back with different legislation , for example the pensions directive which is before the Council now , we could take this into consideration . 
In conclusion , the challenge to this House is Anglo-American law and whether Anglo-American law will supersede the European model . 
I hope and trust this House will reject that proposition . 
Anglo-American law has caused us grievous problems in the United Kingdom and I do not want to see it here . 
I am sure when it comes to the conciliation procedure with the Council , Mrs Fontaine will fight strongly on behalf of Parliament for our amendments . 
Mr President , I agree entirely with Mrs Roth-Behrendt 's final remarks . 
We are talking about consumer confidence and that is the most important thing . 
Our objective tonight as a Parliament is to reinforce the position we have adopted over several years and to make sure that the Commission keeps its resolve to maintain the current position of the European Community . 
I was intrigued to hear the Commissioner say that it would wrong for it to pre-empt any decision that might be taken following the final result that comes from the WTO panel . 
We must be careful because we are in a very strong position . 
It is not a question that what is good for the United States is good for the rest of us . 
Surely we in the Community must be allowed to take our own decisions on these sort of issues . 
We are going to run into many decisions and many difficulties in the World Trade Organization unless we have some mutual respect and mutual recognition of what others in the world believe . 
The WTO panel is going to come to a decision . 
Madam President , sometimes in politics , as in life in general , you have to hold your hands up and say : I got it wrong . 
I have to say that the European Parliament got it wrong in 1995 when we rejected the original biotechnology directive and I got it wrong by voting along with the majority in Parliament at that time . 
The test , though , is not whether , from time to time you get things wrong but whether or not you learn from your mistakes . 
I am pleased to say that the European Parliament has learned from its mistake and that Mr Rothley has expertly guided this new proposal through the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens ' Rights . 
I join with the many other Members who have paid tribute to his work over the last year or so . 
We now have a proposal which , on the one hand , balances the genuine need to protect inventions and the scientists and researchers who work towards creating those inventions and , yes , the companies who put resources into financing the research . 
They deserve a return on their investments . 
The present proposal is also fair to the patients groups . 
The most effective of the hundreds if not thousands of letters I have received on this subject have come from the patients groups . 
It is fair to the patients groups . 
It gives them hope that this relatively new branch of science will help in the treatment of genetic disorders and in cures for diseases such as cancer and AIDS . 
On the other hand and just as importantly , the new proposal provides safeguards for the environment ; it provides safeguards for animal welfare ; it respects existing international agreements ; it ensures that human cloning is outlawed . 
Two years ago we were seduced and panicked by the horror stories of those opposed to biotechnological research . 
Madam President , the point at issue is that the Legal Affairs Committee did not put the documents before the committee members . 
As he will be aware , the economy and the security situation in Kenya are worsening . 
Indeed the recent storming of All Saints Cathedral and the beating of the Reverend Timothy Njoya are just one example of this . 
I am grateful that the Commission is proposing to look at the sending of observers to the elections , but I wonder if the Commission will also look at the other things that are needed : the appointment of an independent electoral commission to run the elections ; the repeal of the public assembly legislation which gives the government control over opposition rallies ; and the question of independence of broadcasting with access to all parties . 
In particular I would ask the Commissioner if , since Kenya has clearly violated Article 5 of the Fourth Lomé Convention , the Commission will consider suspending the aid that it grants to Kenya under the Lomé Convention ? 
Mr President , while I welcome the Commission action to date , I am afraid it is simply not good enough . 
As a founder member of the European Union , the French Government ought to know better , and it ought to know that , as the Commissioner has said , it is in flagrant breach of both the Treaty provisions on the freedom of establishment and , in particular , the implementing directive which , I may remind him , was adopted in 1992 . 
On behalf of the British skiers , many of whom have written to both myself and other British MEPs , could he please tell us at what point a British national holding a British diploma will be able to take a position on equal terms under Article 7 of the Treaty with a French national ? 
It is simply not a level playing field and I repeat that France is in breach of the Treaty and of the implementing directive . 
Madam President , I also would like to congratulate the Commission on reaching the stage of the common position and the rapporteur for all his hard work on these two proposals . 
In accepting the common position , I welcome this as a first step along the path to recognizing the principle of cabotage within the European Union territory . 
However , I wish to express my concern , and the regret and disappointment of myself and the Group of the European People 's Party that progress towards liberalization in this field is painfully slow . 
Regrettably , the possibility of non-resident carriers being able to operate national road passenger services within another Member State is still severely limited . 
The benefits of the proposals before us this evening for coach operators are both tangible and positive . 
Transport operators will be able to take advantage of their entitlement to undertake services in another Member State , and , obviously , would only do so when it was in their commercial interest to engage in these operations . 
International coach operators would be able to benefit , at no additional cost , by filling the empty seats on existing services . 
The further liberalization set out in the common position and in Mr Killilea 's reports would help to reduce costs and save time for operators . 
This streamlining of procedures will only be slightly offset by the need to review the Community licence every five years , which , of course , is part of the proposal . 
I would like to take this opportunity to support the common position and Mr Killilea 's reports and commend them to the House . 
This is a very disappointing reply from the Council . 
I would repeat my question to the President-in-Office : How does he intend to protect the interests of those currently employed , in particular in the ferry , airline and tourism sector , as well as the travelling public ? 
I accept that , being an island , the United Kingdom is going to be particularly disadvantaged by the removal of dutyfree . 
It will be more expensive to travel . 
Would he please answer the question ? 
Mr President , it is not often that we pay Parliament 's services compliments but we always find the daily news briefing extremely helpful . 
I wonder whether you could ensure that the services , on such great occasions as yesterday , make sure that there are ample copies available in English ? 
I would be nearly happy if it was taken as an addition . 
It would be very gracious of the rapporteur if he would accept that . 
I am very concerned that Commissioner Fischler should have been here at 6.40 p.m. to take the questions . 
I think , out of all courtesy to this House , he should be here promptly and I would like an explanation as to why he is not here . 
It is always a pleasure to see the Commissioner albeit , on this occasion , quite late . 
How would the Commissioner satisfy my constituents , and I am very happy to copy every single letter I have had from them on this point - particularly in relation to killings in cultural and sports events ? 
Is it not the Commissioner 's duty , under the Protocol to the original Maastricht Treaty , to ensure that every piece of legislation and every act does comply with the animal welfare provisions which were agreed on in that Protocol ? 
While I have already stated in my question the fact that I realise that Directive 93/119 applies , constituents still have substantial misgivings about the unnecessary and needless suffering of those animals which are killed in cultural and sporting events . 
They are not satisfied - not in my own country but in other Member States - that the Protocol is being adhered to or that the directive is being complied with . 
If the directive is being breached , do they have an action which can be taken before the Court of Justice ? 
It is appropriate that the first action plan for innovation in Europe should come from Florence which was the centre of so much early European civilization . 
We are aware that the correlation between research , technological development and innovation on the one hand and productivity growth and job creation on the other is very strong . 
We are aware too that the European Union is less efficient than its competitors at exploiting the ideas we have . 
Indeed , we currently have a deficit of ECU 24 billion per annum in hi-tech trade with Japan and the USA . 
Clearly we need education and skills development . 
Clearly we need , and are seeing , benchmarking by our companies . 
Clearly we need better provision of finance for small businesses . 
Essentially this will be at the individual , local and national level but it is important that the Union sets the operational environment . 
This action plan is good and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy of this Parliament welcomes it . 
But we need to prioritize to a greater extent , which is not easy for the Commission but which is essential , to create more opportunity to provide equity finance and to work on the European company statute . 
There is much to be gained . 
The great giant , IBM , recently looked to a small Belgian company when it was looking for voice recognition technology . 
Clearly there is a lot that can be done in Europe . 
Far more will be achieved through programmes such as this than ever will be achieved through the jobs package which is being dressed up by the European Council to convince our citizens that we are doing something about employment . 
I welcome this report and believe that Parliament should spend a lot of time looking at what the Commission is doing and ensuring that our innovation policies , which will really foster jobs , will take us forward into the next century . 
Madam President , I must say that it is with a large amount of sadness that I participate in this debate today . 
We have been for a long time hoping that the peace process in the Middle East would come to some form of conclusion . 
I recall very well when the European Parliament delegation visited Israel earlier this year that I came home with a great deal of sadness . 
There seemed to be no unanimity within Israel or within the PLO , and the Palestinian cause generally , as to how to proceed . 
When there is a lack of unanimity it is very difficult to come to a conclusion . 
I listened very carefully to what the President-in-Office and the Commissioner said this morning . 
I must say that I thought that Commissioner Marín was extremely frank and very open and , indeed , courageous in his remarks . 
These things have to be said at the present time and Parliament will have to come to a conclusion because it has a role to play in this process . 
But there are many others who have a role to play and it is not always appreciated that we need better coordination of the way we are approaching the difficulties that are currently being faced in the Middle East . 
Syria , as I have mentioned before , is a key player and has a lot to answer for in terms of the failure to find a solution to the peace process which we all want to see succeed . 
And likewise Iran . 
Those two countries in particular should be brought to task , not only by the United States but also by the United Nations and by the European Union . 
I hope that the EU in particular will try to encourage the United Nations - which at this very moment is undertaking reforms - to respond to events in the problem areas of the world . 
It is not necessarily right that we always depend on the United States to be the world 's policeman . 
The European Union certainly has a role to play . 
We have great interests there as has been pointed out : the financial contribution we make to the Palestinians and also , of course , the trade association agreements we have with the Israelis . 
But , overall , I was encouraged to hear Mr Colajanni say what may be the one thing we can all agree on - that terrorism must be isolated . 
However that is to be achieved , it must be with the cooperation of Syria and with the Iranians . 
I was encouraged also to hear that our relationship with the Jordanian Government - which has a key role to play in this issue - is currently good . 
The Egyptians have always believed that they have a major role to play in the Middle East and I would encourage them to be full participants in this overall discussion which we must surely try to address from that international perspective . 
We all hope that the discussions in Washington next week will be successful . 
But let us also remind everybody that life goes on in the Middle East . 
There are 30 , 000 Palestinians crossing the Israeli border every day to go to work . 
We have a great opportunity as a European Union to make sure that we can bring those conclusions and peace process together so that we do not need to continue this debate on a never-ending basis . 
I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a very full answer . 
I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his very full answer . 
As the only Scottish Member present and one who voted the double Yes in the referendum last week , I should like to say that we are particularly interested , in particular as it concerns one area which he did not mention , namely fishing . 
Three-quarters of the United Kingdom 's catch is landed in Scotland . 
Fishing is one of the powers which will be devolved to a Scottish Parliament . 
So the situation will be that in agriculture and fishing the powers will be devolved from the national parliament to the Scottish Parliament . 
So what would the President-in-Office think about a Scottish fisheries minister - who would not necessarily be of the same party as the UK Government - going to Fisheries and Agriculture Councils ? 
I would like to thank the rapporteur and the speakers and identify with what they have said about the importance of this area . 
Here we have the potential for job creation . 
We know that the disgrace of the EU are the job queues where millions have no hope . 
I would like to stress the importance of the very small enterprises of under 10 , which is what I am used to in my type of area - the Highlands and Islands of Scotland . 
What we need here are practical measures instead of lip service , for people to be able to start enterprises . 
It is wonderful that so many women want to do that in the area of very small firms . 
I agree with what Mr Lyndon Harrison also said about the need for differential tax arrangements . 
Madam President , I am pleased to introduce this motion . 
The schools and hospitals in Kenya do not have the resources they need nor , in some cases , do the local authorities . 
The European Union is a major aid donor to Kenya . 
We know this because recently the ruling party actually made some concessions to the opposition to help create free and fair elections . 
I am grateful to the Commissioner for having met me and a colleague this morning to talk about this situation . 
I would urge him to do all he can to carry out the demands of this motion and bring pressure to bear on the Kenyan Government with a view to free and fair elections and the development of a healthy democracy . 
Mr President , I should like to raise another matter . 
Travelling to this place each week I have to pass through Charles de Gaulle Airport , Paris . 
On the last occasion , last Monday , I was actually held aside and not allowed to pass until I produced my national passport . 
Surely the French realise that we have a Union and that we have a laissez-passer which gives us the right to travel anywhere within the 15 nations . 
( Applause ) Could I ask your office , in that case , to write to the French immigration authorities , pointing out that it is a document which does allow us to pass , so that we do not have this embarrassment in the future . 
Madam President , may we have some clarification from the rapporteur regarding paragraph 22 . 
It says quite clearly : ' Takes the view that cross-border transport , etc. ' 
As far as we in this group are concerned , there are no longer any internal barriers within the Community . 
I would like an assurance from the rapporteur that relates purely to external borders into the Community . 
Regarding paragraph 26 , there is a nuance in the different languages . 
In the German version it says : ' In addition it would be expedient for part of such control ' . 
I should like to be reassured that it is the English text that is valid . 
Madam President , I very much welcome the Commission proposal and would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work . 
The European Parliament reached , after great length , an acceptable compromise . 
In my view , the present situation where differences in national laws hinder free movement is no longer acceptable . 
The Commission proposal is to be welcomed because it seeks to harmonize provisions which most directly affect the proper functioning of the internal market : the definition of design requirements for obtaining protection , the scope and terms of such protection , grounds for refusal or invalidity of such protection , the definition of rights conferred and the limitations thereon . 
Adopting this directive would benefit all sectors of the manufacturing industry , but most especially the consumer goods sector . 
As a point of principle , I very much hope that this House will reinsert the repair clause amendment . 
I totally agree that when needed for repair , unhindered copying of designs of spare parts on payment of remuneration represents a reasonable compromise . 
I therefore support the Commission proposal and the amendments adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens ' Rights . 
I hope this House will have the courage to adopt those amendments and satisfy the needs of consumers and the manufacturing industry in this regard . 
Mr President , I rise to speak on the point raised by Mr Coates which is to be found on page 6 of the Minutes . 
I do not think this is an accurate Minute . 
There can be few matters as important as that . 
I would like the Minutes to be accurate on this matter . 
Mr President , I just wish to advise you that some of us in the Labour Party share Mr Coates ' concern and would like this code of conduct to be addressed by the President in Parliament . 
Madam President , our resolution today will have no binding effect but it provides an important backdrop to the approach of the Member States and the Commission to the summit . 
It is a pity that we have not found greater consensus in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs : we have no fewer than 55 amendments from three major political groups . 
What we know is that we are heading for a return to normal growth but that growth will not be enough to reduce unemployment to a tolerable level , and we must tackle youth unemployment and long-term unemployment particularly . 
We know that to do this we must make the single market work . 
We must recognize the interdependence of our economies and the limits to the effectiveness of national policies , particularly in monetary policy . 
It is ironic that countries which can not make up their minds about the single currency are those in which monetary union would have the greatest job-creating effect . 
We need to provide access to capital and training , for small businesses especially , and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy , under my rapporteurship , has put budget lines worth a total of ECU 150 million into a package to enable the heads of government to do this . 
We need to shift the tax burden away from the things that we want , like jobs and investment , and on to the things that we do not want , like use of scarce natural resources and pollution . 
I welcome in particular the draft employment guidelines for the summit and its four pillars - employability , entrepreneurship , adaptability and equal opportunities - which are so important in creating a climate in which jobs will emerge . 
Exchange of best practice is important too . 
I appreciate the full reply that we have received tonight from the Commissioner . 
Representing , as I do , an area which does not include any part of Portugal or Greece , perhaps you will understand my impatience . 
If I could just explain , port-related activities relate to activities in a port area , in my own case , Harwich - although it could be the port of Athens or indeed the port of Hamburg where people have lost their jobs because of a decline in port activities and a general decline in the maritime transport sector . 
Perhaps the closest parallel we can draw with is the success of the Konver programme , which of all the European social fund and other programmes has actually brought most human resources and training money into the counties of Essex and Suffolk ; also , in relation to tourism and the Adapt programme as well , to Felixstowe , which I do not represent . 
All that we are asking is that the Commission should , under the programme Agenda 2000 , be a little more flexible so as to incorporate the ideas included in the Adapt and Konver programmes to other ESF programmes . 
I welcome the Commissioner 's response and , indeed , the action the Commission is taking , because this is a terribly important subject and one where we can do a lot at European level . 
Commissioner , as part of this ` Week ' I went to visit one of the local hospitals in my constituency - indeed the biggest cancer unit of all the local hospitals - in a medium-sized town , precisely because it was Europe Against Cancer Week . 
I was very sorry to note that this hospital had never even heard of Europe Against Cancer Week , despite the fact that we were in our fifth year , and that the hospital had certainly not heard of the ten-point plan which I was due to launch on my visit . 
I wonder whether the Commissioner would look into the extent to which this information is getting out . 
I read in some of the Commission 's documentation that it issued a public invitation to tender and selected a professional communication agency with offices in nearly all the Member States . 
I can only conclude , Commissioner , that this agency is not doing its work properly in the United Kingdom . 
Mr President , before the Minutes were approved I tried to catch your attention concerning a point of order that was raised yesterday by Mr Imaz . 
I understand the Rules are quite clear . 
You can only ask one supplementary question during the course of Question Time . 
My group was told that was the case . 
However , the Minutes state that , in response to both Questions Nos 46 and 51 , Mrs Thors was allowed to ask two supplementary questions . 
Could we have clarification on this ruling ? 
Mr President , I was interested to hear what the President-in-office had to say about the efforts which the Luxembourg Presidency are going to make to endeavour to find a compromise between the differing views of the individual Member States . 
Firstly , what efforts will the Luxembourg Presidency make to ensure that the timetable of adoption in December is adhered to ? 
Secondly , in regard to the point being put forward by several Members of the Council that there should be further institutional change prior to enlargement , what impetus or weight will the Luxembourg Presidency give to this ? 
The statement just made by the President-in-Office of the Council makes a complete mockery of the concept of an employment summit to be held in Luxembourg . 
I do not see the point in holding such a summit . 
Peripheral countries and islands are more dependent on duty-free sales than central mainland European countries . 
The distances travelled in Belgium , Holland and Luxembourg are necessarily less and the prices charged are less . 
The contribution to the local economy from duty-free sales , not least in terms of jobs , is therefore not as notable . 
The numbers employed in duty-free sales by airports , airlines , sea ports and ferries are substantial , in particular in countries like the United Kingdom , Ireland , Denmark , Norway and Sweden , where nobody enjoys the same low duties as those paid in particular in Luxembourg and Belgium . 
Those people employed in airports , airlines , sea ports and ferries will no longer find employment after 1 January . 
I ask the President-in-Office to use the Luxembourg summit to study this question . 
I am very honoured to replace Mrs Banotti who is otherwise engaged . 
I should like to ask the President-in-Office if he would bear in mind that this is a European Union prize financed by the European Union ; a prize for translation , which is the essence of our exchange of culture , close to the hearts of all of us , paid for by the European citizen . 
Half the prize has , in effect , been stolen by the Danish Treasury . 
Surely this is contrary , if you look at it , to all the similar prizes . 
This is a European Union prize , not an unrelated prize . 
Therefore I feel that there are financial interests raised by this matter . 
I ask the President-in-Office to look at this again . 
To reinforce the point you have just made , Mr President , it is the Conference of Presidents who set the part-session agenda and not the Bureau . 
Secondly , this House is sovereign on this matter . 
The problem is that at present Members of this House undervalue Question Time . 
I wonder whether the Bureau could clarify the rules governing demonstrations in this institution ? 
As we came into the hemicycle Members were greeted by a demonstration of members of staff with a very laudable aim : ' Tomlinson go home ! ' 
We have had discussions about this in the past , and I remember during the miners ' demonstrations those of us who supported the miners in their struggle against the Thatcher Government were not allowed to display our support and publish posters . 
However , here we have a situation where members of staff appear willy-nilly to be able to demonstrate and Members appear to be denied the same privilege ! 
I would like some clarification here . 
I do not object to people being allowed to demonstrate but what is sauce for the MEP goose should be sauce for the parliament official ganders . 
The Rules of Parliament are quite clear that Parliament must issue its amendments and its reports in the languages of the Members present . 
I went to Distribution and asked for the amendments to the Tomlinson report and I have received them in German . 
Now as most people in this room will know , because of the English language that us Scots get taught in Scotland our English is n't very good . 
I can assure you my German is absolutely hopeless . 
Is it possible for you to instruct the office to ensure that these amendments are available in English and the languages of the other Members so that we can understand what we are voting on ? 
Madam President , the posters are still there attacking a Member of this House . 
I asked the ushers to remove them ; they said that they were authorized . 
I would like these posters to be removed right now ! 
Madam President , regarding the Minutes , it is the point I raised yesterday which was also raised by Mrs Ewing and Mr Tomlinson about the demonstration . 
Like Mr Habsburg , I believe in saving taxpayers ' money so the staff employed here are not organizing demonstrations in Parliament 's time against the reputation of honorable Members . 
Has there been any follow-up on what measures the presidency is going to take to ensure that there will be no recurrences of this ? 
Has any disciplinary action against the offending people been considered ? 
Madam President , I would like to pick up on the points made by my colleague , Mr McMahon . 
While I did not agree with yesterday 's demonstration , I can not and will not accept that disciplinary action should be taken against trade unionists . 
I have been a trade unionist all my life . 
They are allowed to organize and demonstrate . 
We should not be taking any action against them . 
Can you confirm that the Commissioner will be with us today to make a statement ? 
Madam President , this report by Mrs Fraga is an own-initiative report and it is a very important report for the future of the common fisheries policy . 
I would say to this House that Mrs Fraga has behaved impeccably as rapporteur . 
She is a very fine example of how a rapporteur should behave in conducting Parliament 's business and committee business . 
I therefore have every confidence that this House will want to maintain the report on the floor of the House because in spite of one or two small linguistic problems which can be sorted out by the services , most groups would wish to maintain the agenda and see the work of this House move forward properly . 
Madam President , my point of order is on Rule 22 of the Rules - the duties of the Bureau . 
I should like to know what measures the Bureau is going to take to ensure that we are in line with the other institutions which are not discriminating against older Community citizens . 
I would like to ask the Commissioner for clarification of a point in his statement which I believe to be an inaccurate representation of the law as it stands today . 
The Treaty of Maastricht introduced for the first time the power for the Commission to impose penalties in the form of fines on a Member State which , as in this case , is clearly in breach of the free movement provisions . 
I do not know how much more evidence the Commission needs . 
These disruptions have been going on since 1984 and last year 's disruption ran into millions of pounds . 
Would the Commissioner therefore please apply the rules as introduced by the Maastricht Treaty and withhold funds from the European taxpayers ' budget from which French farmers , French fishermen and French trainees would otherwise benefit . 
Would he use these provisions and confirm that no change to the law is required . 
He must simply implement the Maastricht Treaty provisions . 
Mr President , I do not think I need to repeat the remarks that I made earlier about the way the rapporteur went about her work . 
By accepting many amendments , and I am glad that she accepted many of my own , she has made her own position rather more uncomfortable because the report that she is delivering today is a very different report to her original draft . 
But this shows that she has done her work properly and I think Parliament recognizes that fact . 
The common fisheries policy is a bit of a mess at the moment . 
We , of course , need a policy that looks after the people who live in some of the more peripheral and poorer areas of the Community and the general philosophy of this report I believe to be correct . 
It stresses relative stability , whatever some colleagues might say , and it stresses that the sensitive areas of the Community must be respected . 
It is vital that the fishermen feel involved in the policy in a way they do not at the present time . 
Eighty per cent of the fishermen fish close to their own shores and eighty per cent , therefore , of the fishermen will be involved in the policy . 
The larger boats which go a further distance will require much more Community control than there has been in the past . 
I believe all that is delivered in this report and I give it my full support . 
Mr President , I should like to comment briefly on the issue you allowed Mr Corbett to comment on . 
Thank you for saying that you will look into this issue . 
I do not disagree with what you said about the judiciary in various Member States but I would say that many football supporters across Europe get very poor treatment both by police and courts . 
I would also point out that there is much more reticence in criticizing courts and police behaviour in many parts of the world during our human rights debates each month in Strasbourg . 
Mr President , in the interests of transparency can I declare an interest in that I am a beef farmer . 
Few people in this Parliament will have any appreciation of the enormous amount of material that this temporary committee has looked at in detail over the last few months and great praise must be given to rapporteur Böge and the chairman for the way in which they have handled it . 
The close scrutiny of commissioners , veterinary officers , scientists , ministry officials and many others who gave evidence has quite clearly shown that in the early days of this dreadful BSE epidemic there were mistakes at all levels , both at Commission and European level . 
I stress European because , although the bulk of this problem has hit the United Kingdom , there is no doubt that there have been problems in other European countries . 
It is a pity that we did not have a uniform European standard policy towards BSE from the start . 
With the tonnages of contaminated material which were exported to mainland Europe from the United Kingdom , it was quite obvious that a few cases would appear . 
I am delighted , Mr President , that Commissioner Fischler has taken a strong stance to create a European policy and get the same high standards in other European countries that we have been bound by in the United Kingdom . 
Nor should we forget the huge knock-on costs to other industries such as transporters , renderers , slaughterhouses , which are now crippled by a devastatingly low market for beef animals and beef products . 
That is looking back . 
To look forward it is quite obvious from the statistics that , having had a peak of 37 , 000 cases three years ago and only 3 , 000 cases this year in the United Kingdom , the efforts of the last government and the present one have had a dramatic effect on the reduction of this disease . 
But British hill farmers are being devastated and we must as soon as possible bring in a certified herds scheme , whereby farms can be declared clear and then , by a process of tagging and identification , make sure that meat can be traced from the animal to the butcher 's shop . 
Mr President , can I support both the report from Mr Böge and the resolution . 
Would the Commissioner not agree that there are inevitably going to be distortions to air and ferry links , meaning very serious distortions to internal travel within a single market , as a result of the removal of duty free , for the simple reason that it costs a great deal more to fly from Dublin , Scotland or Milan to Brussels than possibly to take the train from one of the Benelux countries ? 
Would he not think it is more appropriate to extend the derogation for ten years , bearing in mind not just the jobs in the duty free sector but also the fact that you are calling a special conference to boost employment in the European Union , whereas , in fact , with one fell swoop you are going to make approximately 13 , 000 people unemployed ? 
I wish to begin by thanking the Commissioner for that very helpful response . 
I wonder whether she would agree with me that primates are man 's closest relative and all the evidence shows that they feel pain and suffering in the same way as man ? 
Therefore , the Commission 's work - which I repeat I welcome - should be aimed at ensuring that we make the minimum use of primates and secondly that their transportation and housing is of the highest order and has the highest welfare standards in mind . 
I look forward to bringing this matter before the European Parliament so that we can give a political response to the Commission 's technical work . 
I thank the Commissioner for her answer . 
Who will make the decision on the criteria ? 
Will it be a joint decision ? 
It is important that we receive some indication of the level the Commission is thinking of . 
When is the decision likely to be made ? 
Mr President , the accident in the Dominican Republic in February 1996 clearly highlights the problem before us today . 
That particular case involved a Turkish aircraft chartered by a German tour operator in which all 176 passengers were killed . 
There it would appear that insufficient pre-flight ramp checks and pilot errors could be said to have turned a minor technical problem into a major disaster . 
I congratulate the Commission on introducing this proposed directive and the rapporteur for his excellent work in preparing this report . 
This is the first of a series of measures recommended by the high-level group of experts charged with defining the Community aviation improvement strategy which formed the subject of an earlier report in my name . 
In that opinion the European Parliament wanted to introduce a similar system of safety checks for third country aircraft using European Union airports to that used in port state control in the maritime transport sector . 
That is to say that ICAO safety standards should be applied in relation to all third country aircraft to create a blacklist of those third country carriers not meeting European Union safety standards . 
Clearly the standards required by ICAO ought to be imposed on third country carriers carrying European Union passengers or using European Union airports . 
I welcome here the fact that for the first time JAA is to centralize all information relating to ramp checks , specific conditions under which ramp checks must be carried out and set down in specific EU measures for action to ensure that these standards are applied . 
These are a very welcome first step and I hope they will lead to even greater safety throughout the European Union . 
On a point of order . 
Mr President , I would like to bring to the House 's attention an incident that happened at lunchtime today . 
During the voting at lunchtime , one of the Members of this House claimed that during the translation of certain amendments one of the amendments had been incorrectly translated into English from the original version in French . 
He claimed that the text should have read ` English meat ' instead of ` British meat ' . 
That Member was misleading this House and I wish the record to be corrected . 
Mr President , I wish to congratulate Karl von Wogau on his report . 
The Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party supports him in his conclusions and , indeed , feels that he has carried out a very comprehensive assessment of the problems with the single market and the challenges which face us . 
My Group will not support Amendment No 8 , which we believe to be protectionism in disguise . 
Clearly we are disappointed with the development of the single market . 
It seems that the Member States lack the political will to make it work properly . 
Indeed , they have even passed measures which detract from the acquis of the single market . 
It seems sometimes that the Commission lacks the courage of its convictions and its powers as guardian of the treaties to pursue cases of non-compliance with sufficient determination . 
The single market is essential for prosperity . 
We know from surveys that before 1993 compliance with customs controls was costing traders some ECU 7.5 billion every year - that is based on 1992 trade levels but expressed in today 's money . 
That is equivalent to 1 % of the total value of trade between Member States at the time . 
We know that since 1 January 1993 the abolition of routine customs controls has cut costs by two-thirds , saving traders some ECU 5 billion per annum . 
There are similar cost savings to road hauliers since 1992 but residual waiting times at borders are still costing some ECU 50 million every year . 
Much money could be saved if the Commission could push the Member States into completing the single market effectively . 
The Member States bear the greatest brunt of the blame . 
UK officials have said they will destroy these cigars because Mr Smith has refused to pay # 90 in duty . 
I took up the case when these cigars were impounded . 
Customs were claiming that since they were not imported personally the duty had to be paid . 
In fact they had been ordered from a tobacconist in Germany and duty had been paid at the point of sale . 
The UK Government claims that this is a distance-selling transaction , like the man-in-black case . 
There are some parallels but the Commissioner who helped me early on in this case , and my efforts , have been unable to persuade UK customs to act justly . 
Until we can get that kind of problem sorted out Europe 's citizens will never believe in the single market . 
I will be brief . 
This is an excellent report . 
The Liberal Group supports it and we support the broad sweep of the Budget Committee 's amendments . 
We know that to be workable the proposed origin system requires much closer cooperation and coordination between authorities of Member States . 
We welcome the Commission 's proposals . 
We suspect that its timetable is very optimistic and that the full implementation of the work programme may need longer . 
But we are convinced that the imminence of substantial change to the definitive system must not obscure the need for reforms to the existing transitional system , which can then be carried forward into the new definitive system . 
The interpretation of the Sixth Directive by Member States , often to the benefit of their national treasuries , is no less than scandalous . 
This is certainly the case in the UK . 
This pamphlet calls for an indirect taxation forum . 
That call is repeated tonight in Mr Secchi 's report and was repeated in Mrs Randzio-Plath 's report to which the Commissioner referred earlier . 
The Commission must involve practitioners and academic specialists in helping to sort out the current problems , irrespective of the move to a new system . 
Under my rapporteurship on the Economic Committee we have provided funds for this in the European Union 's budget for next year and I hope the Commission will heed our calls . 
Mr President , my point concerns the Minutes . 
I refer to an intervention by Mr Macartney in which he said there had been some confusion and an error in translation from the original version in French into English . 
I have checked the original French version and it quite clearly states ` la viande britannique ' . 
For example , her last comment about a reserve and keeping money back from those who do not execute it well and giving it to those who implement Community policy well , is a measure which the Commission should give serious consideration to adopting . 
One of the problems in many of the debates in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs concerns the management and administration of the Fund . 
Sometimes it is the Commission 's fault but , more often than not , it is what happens in the Member States , particularly in states like Italy where there does not appear to be a proper regional structure and where there are all sorts of problems with funds not being allocated properly . 
Indeed , in this week 's report by the Court of Auditors - it is very timely that we should be debating it the same week - various areas of the social fund are singled out again for poor implementation . 
Italy , Spain and Portugal are three Member States which are given a dishonourable mention by the Auditors . 
The social fund is investment in people . 
Many of the other funds - infrastructure and so on - are going to industrialists or large companies . 
In these cases the individual has very little tangible experience of a fund , whereas a young person who gets some training and , as a result of that training gets a job , can see that some benefit has resulted from the European social fund . 
For example , in 1992 32 % of the Union 's population were over 45 ; by 1996 that had risen to 36 % and by 2015 it will be over 50 % . 
Thus it is important that we consider the training of older workers , particularly when we have a flexible labour market and people will be going in and out of different occupations . 
Obviously , this is another area which the Commission must address . 
We in the United Kingdom have had considerable problems with this . 
The former Commissioner Millan was very anxious to do something about this and started an investigation into the regional fund and other funds but it was dropped . 
The Commission should take additionality up again and look at it very seriously . 
We have this recurring problem of administration , which we must get to grips with . 
Karin Jöns is putting forward in this report some very concrete and well-thought-out proposals . 
I commend them to the House and I am quite sure we will vote them through tomorrow . 
Many of the amendments are just tidying-up amendments and I think she will be able to accept many of them . 
Madam President , it is with some sadness that I rise this morning to comment on yesterday 's Minutes . 
Yesterday I rose to refer to an inaccuracy which had seemingly occurred with my colleague , Mr Macartney , regarding an error , he claims , in translation . 
Yesterday he claimed that in the original version of an amendment he had put down the words ` English beef ' which had been translated in to ` British beef ' . 
I do not know whether Mr Macartney is a closet vegetarian and is trying to ban all British beef , but I suspect in this case he has been rumbled . 
Really , he should be apologizing to this House for misleading it and being economical with the truth . 
The rapporteur is meant to represent the committee responsible for the report and here we have Mr Ripa di Meana representing a rapporteur who has not asked the committee itself to find a substitute . 
It is wrong for a political group to present a report on behalf of a committee when it should be another representative of the committee itself . 
Could this rule be clarified at some point by the presidency ? 
Mr President , this has been a good debate and it is important for certain Member States . 
I am delighted that the procedures seem to be improving although most colleagues would agree that they are not yet at a satisfactory state as regards the proposals that come from the Commission and their treatment by us and the Council . 
My main concern is that as a parliament we try to make sure that we get our development policies for some of these developing countries and our fishing policies and opportunities correctly stated . 
I believe in making sure that we do not over-exploit some of those fish stocks . 
As far as I can see from these reports we are talking about a total of ECU 41 million which is a lot of money scattered around the number of vessels that are participating in this local fisheries we are having the agreements with . 
The future of the European fisheries fleet is closely tied to these agreements . 
The Member States concerned who are utilizing those funds should recognize that they may at some time in the future have to be diverted to compensate for fishing opportunities that will no longer be available . 
That is why it is important that these agreements be seen in the light of future opportunities which may not always exist in the future . 
We have to recognize the fact that while we are great consumers of fish , it may not always be European vessels which will have the opportunity of exploiting those resources . 
Mr President , you often come in for a lot of flak on these occasions and I think it is only right that on some occasions you should receive some compliments as well . 
I would ask you to pass on our thanks to all the services involved in moving us into our new offices in Brussels for the way this was carried out . 
There were some small difficulties but , on the whole , this massive undertaking was carried out with exceptional efficiency . 
Please pass this on to all concerned . 
Madam President , I too asked the President about the cost of the computer system in Brussels . 
I trust that I will not receive a reply to the effect that I can not receive a reply on the basis of Rule 41.1 which Mr Lindqvist has referred to . 
When Members put a question to the President , they are entitled to an answer and Rules should not be used to obviate that answer . 
We must have an answer as to why we have a computer system in Brussels which can not take CD-roms and on which the main contractor has a three-year warranty , which prevents us using the computers for user-friendly purposes . 
Answers to these questions must be given . 
Our constituents demand it . 
I understand that you need scientific evidence , but in the United States they would withdraw the product and then , if the scientific evidence proved the product to be safe , allow it back on the market . 
In the meantime we are allowing this product , which there are serious concerns over , to remain on the market . 
I wonder if we should not be taking action now to remove it from the market and then , if the scientific evidence happily proves it to be safe , we can allow it back on the market . 
I thank the Commissioner for taking this matter up and for acting so efficiently and effectively . 
Could I make the point that he might consider in the discussions with the other institutions , pointing out to them that they must try and live up to the spirit and practice of the Amsterdam Treaty , particularly those aspects dealing with discrimination in employment . 
I refer in particular to the institution of which we are Members , because it appears to be one of the most laggard in retaining the archaic practice of ageism in employment . 
Would he take the opportunity then in the discussions that are going on - and we know it is a delicate matter - of pointing out that the spirit of the Amsterdam Treaty demands that all European institutions set an example for other Community citizens ? 
Mr President , I should like to ask Commissioner Fischler how he can justify the decision to postpone the enforcement of the ban on specified risk materials and whether it is not indeed appropriate that it has been postponed until April Fools ' Day . 
If the problem is damage to our beef markets and to consumer confidence , is the solution not to take the toughest measures to restore that consumer confidence ? 
I suspect the Commissioner agrees , otherwise he would not have given tacit approval tonight to Mr Cunningham 's actions . 
They say they want to protect the safety and integrity of their food supplies . 
Why is it that we have to attack the United States when what they appear to be doing is retaining consumer confidence in food there , in the way that we should be here in Europe ? 
We are beginning to realize now how wise it would have been to write a chapter on energy into the Maastricht Treaty . 
Particularly in the light of the failure of the Kyoto Conference , the problems of our energy policy are becoming much more apparent . 
The Commission put them forward before and seems now to have withdrawn from that . 
The Commission has to look wider too . 
We have to look for five leitmotifs for energy policy in the European Union . 
First , we have to introduce a major programme of investment in energy conservation in Europe . 
Second , we have to encourage consumers and firms to use energy more efficiently . 
Third , we have to cut the costs of energy efficiency in homes and offices . 
Fourth , we have to make new buildings and machinery , vehicles and appliances more energy efficient , and work is being done on this . 
Finally , we have to increase support for renewable sources of energy . 
It is essential that these are done . 
The Commission is beginning to show the way forward , but if we are serious about it we are going to have to put the money behind our political intentions . 
Mr President , I should like to welcome the Commission White Paper and the Sarlis report . 
In particular , I support the main objectives with the aim of encouraging the transfer of traffic from road to rail . 
All of us in this House would welcome the environmental benefits that such a transfer could bring . 
Further liberalization of the rail sector is necessary . 
As Mr Simpson has mentioned , we are awaiting the implementation into national law of the Commission directives already adopted . 
In my view , there should be a clear separation between the management of infrastructure and the operation of services to ensure transparency . 
Perhaps the Commission might like to take the UK model in this regard . 
Open access should be extended to all freight and international passenger services . 
It is especially important that we insist that normal state aids criteria should apply in restructuring railway finances . 
It is absolutely vital that there should be no distortion of the market in this regard . 
In supporting the introduction of rail freight freeways , I see this as a first step towards the creation of open access on Member States ' rail networks . 
However , it is important that this be accompanied by proposals on financial restructuring and the development of methodology for access charging . 
I commend the Sarlis report to the House and congratulate the Commission on introducing its White Paper . 
Mr President , concerning the Minutes , page 15 , the issue raised by Mr de Vries and Mr Martens . 
Will he make a personal statement today or will President Santer inform the House why it is important at this time of great unemployment in Europe that Commissioners should hold two jobs ? 
Mr President , I thank the Commissioner for his very full explanation - 6 minutes 47 seconds worth of an answer ; a very full and comprehensive answer . 
What is obvious from his answer and , perhaps should be underlined , is that no Member State has sent him any information . 
Is he going to put some pressure on Member States to give him information , to give him a list ? 
How often does he envisage this committee meeting and would he invoke the infringement procedure if Member States do not give him a list ? 
Mr President , this for me is a very historic day because 21 years ago to the day I was the only MP still here who spoke on the first ever UK Presidency - the last UK Labour presidency . 
I notice from the Minutes that Mr Tomlinson spoke in the next debate and he is still here , but he was speaking as President-in-Office of the Council , not as a Member . 
So it is historic and I would like to start on a pleasant note by throwing a few bouquets at the President-in-Office , which might surprise him . 
The first bouquet I am throwing is because of the introduction of PR for euro elections - a long awaited improvement in our lot . 
The opting into the social policy shunned by the previous government , the promise today of opening Council deliberations , something I spoke about 21 years ago , suggesting as I do now , that EP committee chairmen be invited to Council deliberations on relevant matters : I wait to see if that will be followed 21 years later . 
It is not a case of rock and roll so much as of a slow foxtrot . 
I would like to praise also the enormous courage of Mr Cook 's counterpart in government , Mo Mowlam , for her very brave actions with regard to Northern Ireland . 
I would like to praise the European noises that are coming from the front bench . 
But I start now with a criticism about EMU . 
It is an irony surely that in the moment when the decision is to be made as to who is to be in the first tranche , the UK has opted out , although it qualifies , and is not going to be in the first tranche . 
That to me is a lost opportunity . 
I would say to the President-in-Office that the train will start , it will travel well , and will it not be harder to clamber on the train once it is well in motion ? 
The Trade Union Congress , the CBI , the exporters of whom Scotland has very many , are all in favour of EMU . 
So I think that this is a great shame and I wonder if even yet it is not possible for the UK Government to change it 's mind ? 
Here is what President Crosland said 21 years ago today : ' There was always in the context of EMU , a widespread hope that financial policy-making would pass from Member States to the Community and that the Community would transform from a customs union into a fully integrated economic union complete with its Central Bank , a single fixed exchange and a growing harmonization of taxes . ' 
It is a bit of a slow foxtrot , is it not ? 
While the UK has dithered , bereft of vision , the clock has ticked on and I think the failure of the UK to join EMU is a present tragedy . 
On the social policy side I have another criticism . 
Is there much point in getting the advantages of the social policy , which we have always supported in the party I represent here , if Old Labour 's stance of defending the disadvantaged is to be abandoned ? 
Disabled , single mothers , students - there is a Euro-speak that people criticize but there is also a New Labour-speak which I criticize . 
` Means-testing ' is now ` affluence-testing ' . 
` Long-termism ' is meant to excuse the savage cuts of today . 
I would like to turn to some practical questions on the priorities . 
We all have our favourite environmental issues , but I would urge that we enforce the code of conduct passed by this Parliament for sub-standard tankers which threaten all our coasts and have , in fact , caused enormous damage to many of our Member States . 
On unemployment , the EMAC committee on which I served has put forward that there should be a compulsory rule about late payment . 
That really would help to solve the problems of small businesses and we should look to the very small businesses where real jobs can be created in great numbers . 
The President-in-Office did not mention fishing today . 
We have had a debacle of decades with the last government 's sell-out to Spain on fishing . 
But recently we had another one by this New Labour , with the sell-out on the Fraga report . 
So , I ask the President-in-Office if he is still committed to the principle of relative stability ? 
This is the fundamental question . 
And are flag-ships to be allowed to continue making a nonsense of the whole of the CFP as it was originally developed ? 
Has he read the Duke of Edinburgh 's criticism this week of the one-sided nature of fishing agreements between the EU and poor developing countries ? 
Members on all sides of this House and from all countries welcome the referendum , which must be another bouquet I throw at this government that the President-in-Office represents . 
But there is keen sadness about the broken promises : the direct relationship offered to the new Scottish Parliament with Europe has been watered down , the status of the ` Länder ' has been watered down , the right to attend meetings if the Scottish interest was dominant has been watered down . 
On enlargement , can we solve it without an enhancement of the funding ? 
Mr President , this is my first speech from the Green Group in the European Parliament , and I hope you will be gentle with me . 
It is also very appropriate that it is about Australia , because I am a past chairman of the European Parliament 's delegation for relations with Australia and New Zealand , and I have just returned from Australia , where the issue of aboriginal land and native title is dividing the country down the middle . 
There will be an election later this year on this very precise issue , which this resolution today highlights in terms of uranium mining , but which actually concerns the whole country in relation to aboriginal access to their native land . 
The Deputy Prime Minister of Australia will be glad to know it denounced me twice in the Australian Parliament during the ten days of my visit to Australia when I spoke in support of aboriginal land rights right across Australia . 
I want this Parliament to be on record that Europe is watching Australia very carefully on this issue , and I hope we can return to it in months to come . 
Mr President , this is an extremely timely report as we move towards the year 2000 . 
A new organization is being put in place to administer aid to the developing countries in the ACP . 
I must congratulate Mr Goerens on the vision he has shown in how to improve the effectiveness of Community aid to developing nations . 
I say ` timely ' because , if one looks back and sees that between ECU 40 billions and 50 billions have been spent in aid since 1975 , yet many applicant countries are worse off today than they were at the start of Lomé , something must be wrong with the system . 
There are many reasons for this : instability of governments , corruption and , in many cases , countries carrying a debt burden that they simply will never recover from . 
With many nations cutting bilateral aid and a constant squeeze on EU funding , it is therefore vital that available finance is made better use of . 
There is , I believe , a real need for a regional approach to get a better integration of projects to make sure aid is not spread so thinly that it is not being effective . 
There are many ways better use can be made of existing funds . 
There needs to be a relaxation of the rules to allow EU delegates on the ground to have more say in decision-making powers . 
This would improve the impact - the spending power - and would allow for proper , detailed feasibility studies and impact studies to be done to monitor the situation more closely . 
There are many instances where no environmental impact study has been done , with consequential damage to the ecology of the area . 
Developing nations must trade their way out of financial problems . 
Only if we have stable and good governments will outside investors help to create the environment to allow industrial development . 
Africa is the next logical continent for such development . 
My group fully supports this report . 
Madam President , I agree with what Mrs Fontaine and Mr Pasty have said but I should like to broaden the matter rather than narrow it down . 
What does immediately mean ? 
When the bells are rung it normally means that we have ten minutes before we get to the plenary for the start of a session . 
The bells rang yesterday , but as Mr Pasty quite rightly said , there was no other indication whatsoever what was going on in the Chamber . 
I recognize that we have just moved into a new building and the full scenes are not yet available on our television sets but it is an issue that the administration needs to address . 
Maybe this should go to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure , the Verification of Credentials and Immunities so that the Rules can be changed to accommodate what happened yesterday . 
Mr President , I wish to begin by congratulating these two brave rapporteurs , who have set out all these fairly unpleasant facts so very clearly and without beating about the bush . 
I should also like to pay tribute to Mr McMillan-Scott , because I remember how , when this started in 1989 , he was almost alone - but I always supported him - in seeking the truth of this fairly sordid matter , where pockets were lined and where the people who lined their pockets have not , as far as I know , paid anything back yet or been officially asked to do so . 
All of us know we have to go forward and that the present incumbents in office are not the people responsible for these depredations . 
We know it can provide more jobs - mention was made of 100 million , but we know there can be still more with more inter-state cooperation and marketing and with longer seasons in some Member States . 
I speak with some feeling there , because I do not always offer the best weather in my particular part of the Community but it is very good for certain holidays . 
That is the position of most of us . 
We feel there is still a lot of clearing-up to be done and that questions should be asked as to why the information was withheld or was misleading , and why the irregular practices were tolerated for years , due perhaps , as Mr Kellett-Bowman said , to an excess of loyalty . 
But when there are criminal or fraudulent acts , an excess of loyalty can not be tolerated by any elected Member of Parliament . 
Is there going to be any attempt to recover the money by way of compensation ? 
Are the criminal proceedings in the two Member States mentioned time-barred or not ? 
Discharge provides a very strong weapon for Parliament , but it is very difficult for the job to be done if the information is not before the Committee on Budgetary Control and Parliament . 
Is there going to be agreement from the Commission for the future ? 
In paragraph 9 , Mr De Luca calls on the Commission to submit within three months a progress report on the recovery of undue payments . 
Does the Commission agree with that ? 
Does the Commission agree that there must be total transparency from now on and that such practices should not be repeated even if loyalty is at stake ? 
I assure you that I have no intention to kick this football in the Chamber but it is an excellent example of a souvenir World Cup football . 
I am grateful to the Commissioner for his answer . 
Clearly under Article 7a of the Single European Act , and indeed under Article 85 , it must be held that any product lawfully put on sale in one part of the Union can not be barred from being imported into any other . 
Indeed , the Commission has just fined Volkswagen some # 68 million for breach of this principle . 
It is my information that the French authorities are preventing ticket agencies and tour operators from selling tickets outside France . 
A ticket , for example , for the Brazil v Scotland match which would cost # 50 in France , has been on sale on the black market in Britain for nearly # 800 . 
Did the French authorities consult the Commission before making their arrangements ? 
Does the Commissioner not agree that this is outrageous and does he not agree that it contravenes EU principles ? 
Will he take action against France if it is found to be in breach of the Treaties ? 
Mr President , the Liberal group favours reducing the amount of waste and making the treatment of waste safer . 
There are two approaches to waste disposal : incineration where geographical conditions and population density mean that landfill is inappropriate ; and landfill itself . 
Both have their problems . 
Incineration can cause air pollution , landfill can cause groundwater pollution and the production of methane , a greenhouse gas . 
But technology is minimizing those problems . 
In my view this directive is biased in favour of incineration but it allows both approaches to continue . 
The Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection has made it rather more one-sided and some of its amendments would effectively change policy to incineration only . 
My group favours a gradual move towards incineration , particularly of waste which is not biodegradable . 
But we do not wish to overlook the new , green growth industry which involves methane collection and the production of energy from waste . 
The Commission document published recently on methane gas recognizes the importance of this . 
The Liberal group will vote against certain amendments put forward by the Committee on the Environment : those which would effectively outlaw landfill ; those which we regard as over-prescriptive ; and those which we regard as impractical . 
Nonetheless , we support the aims of this directive and the work the Commissioner has done on it . 
We regret the position taken and the somewhat uncharitable remarks made by the rapporteur in this debate tonight . 
We believe this directive constitutes a move forward for the Union in terms of disposing of waste more effectively and taking greater care of the environment . 
Mr President , I refer to pages 12 and 13 of the English version of the Minutes and matters that were raised subsequently . 
This refers to the concern expressed by Members about the impact in the Chamber of the new arrangements for tying the payment of Members ' expenses to voting requirements . 
Mr Falconer raised a number of points of order , and I was very concerned that the President in the Chair yesterday seemed to give him some kind of blanket exemption from the rules I understood had been decided . 
Mr Falconer quite properly asked for the opportunity to state his intention before every vote in which he did not participate . 
All I ask is that all the Vice-Presidents follow a consistent policy , observe the rules that have been laid down for Members and give Members an opportunity at every stage to raise the question of whether they vote or not . 
If this system is to work , it has to be seen to be working properly and with the agreement of all the Vice-Presidents . 
Mr President , I have one or two very simple corrections to the Minutes . 
I agreed with Mr Falconer 's position but said that I might or might not take part in the vote . 
On page 22 it states that I did not vote . 
In fact I voted every time , except once when the machine did not work . 
On page 11 , my name should be alongside Mr Macartney 's as abstaining in the roll-call vote . 
I called to the attention of the Chair the fact that my machine did not work . 
I got a nod and thought it was in order but , quite clearly , the nod did not mean that it was in order . 
Lastly , on page 17 - which is a little more complicated - I am wrongly described in the last paragraph as requesting ` that the matter be referred to the Rules Committee ' . 
What I said was that this change amounted to an amendment of the Rules and , therefore , would have to be referred to the Rules Committee . 
We have the right not to vote or vote , as we wish . 
I would like the Minutes to be corrected in that way . 
Mr President , I admire this House 's form of elitism , when someone stands up to make a point arising from the Minutes and then leaders of groups are called into some kind of confessional in order to admit their sins . 
Mrs Hoff made a point when she said : ' Let us look at the Rules to see if we can prevent what happened yesterday ' . 
Well , let us look at the Rules to ensure that any changes which affect Members are brought to the Members and that Members have a right to vote on those changes . 
That would prevent the nonsense that went on yesterday . 
Page 22 states again that I did not vote . 
I remind the President that I did participate in certain votes , particularly human rights . 
I participated and am recorded as such . 
The Minutes are wrong in both areas . 
I ask that they be corrected . 
Lastly , if we are to have a rule that comes down on high from the Bureau , then it has to be carried through by the House . 
The Bureau 's ruling was that , prior to each roll-call vote , the Members would indicate whether they wished to participate or not . 
That is what I hope we will continue to do until such time as this House begins to grasp some sense of reality and reverts back to some normality . 
We know they have it , we sold it to them . 
Let us end all chemical and biological warfare and destroy all weapons around the world . 
Let us inspect all sites around the world including those in the USA and in Britain which still exist . 
How ironic then that Mr Clinton 's main backer is Mr Blair , Mr Clean the Christian socialist , and how disgraceful that Mr Blair , the President of the European Union , has made no attempt to represent the views of Europe but seeks to impose the views of Mr Clinton on Europe . 
How sad and pathetic it is to watch Robin Cook , the British Foreign Secretary , instead of travelling around Europe to help stop the war , trailing around the Gulf States to persuade them to let the US and Britain bomb Baghdad . 
What an end to a man who made his name as a CND and peace campaigner ! 
The Financial Times this morning reports that Foreign Office officials brief that Britain is prepared to use nuclear weapons against Iraq if Saddam responds . 
Let this Parliament speak clearly against this unnecessary war . 
The joint resolution of the EPP and the PSE does not go far enough . 
I understand that Pauline Green has been privately critical of Mr Blair 's belligerence over Iraq . 
Let us be openly critical of the British failure to act as the President of Europe rather than the fifty-second state of the US . 
Let us say that bombing Baghdad will not work and is morally unjustifiable . 
The Green amendments to the joint resolution will say all these things . 
I appeal to the Socialist group , and especially to the British Labour Members ; forget your fears about reselection , listen to your conscience , follow the example of the British MPs who voted against the war at Westminster last night . 
Remember that not only will your Labour party members judge you , but history will judge how you vote on this issue . 
I appeal to you to vote for peace , for a diplomatic solution and against the war . 
Madam President , I asked Mr Henderson to make a statement on whether , as the Foreign Office officials reported in The Financial Times today are saying , that Britain is prepared to use nuclear weapons in Iraq . 
Would he give a confirmation on that ? 
Madam President , I can understand your desire to speed up the agenda , but my problem is that if we accept what you are proposing then it will be a set precedent for the future . 
I do think that the Bureau , in its wisdom , after hearing this confession this morning would wish to reconsider these matters . 
We would like an assurance that this would be for this session only and that we would have the right to return to the Bureau 's previous guidelines . 
Secondly , we would like an assurance that the Bureau will not wait three months to review these matters but will review them within the next three days . 
That would be another assurance which I think would go a long way to pacify this House and allow us to proceed . 
Mr President , this proposal is obviously linked to the measures to support the process of liberalization in the air transport sector with the aim of ensuring high safety standards . 
I congratulate the rapporteur for his excellent work , and the Commission for its excellent proposal . 
My concern with the directive proposed is , will it actually improve safety in air transport ? 
Our aim should surely be to set the best safety practices across Europe . 
Currently , the joint aviation authorities seek to achieve cabin crew safety by placing responsibility for safety throughout an airline clearly on the operator . 
Currently that operator must ensure comprehensive safety throughout the company and that cabin crew are trained to fit in with that company 's specific system . 
The directive waters down this responsibility and , therefore , may just possibly undermine cabin crew safety . 
The Commissioner , this evening , referred to a number of proposals , including that to set up the European Civil Aviation Safety Agency and efforts to improve the implementation of ICAO standards throughout the European Union . 
I would make a plea to the Commission this evening to reach an early agreement with the Council on the setting-up of this European Civil Aviation Safety Agency to ensure that safety both in Europe and worldwide is secured . 
The figures show - and were discussed in a conference in Maastricht today - that over the last ten years 70 % of all accidents have involved carriers accounting for only 16 % of total air traffic . 
Those airlines from developing countries appear to be mostly at risk . 
Without this European action which is so urgently required , experts predict that quite possibly there could be one air accident a week . 
So please , Commissioner , and the British Presidency of the Transport Council , act now . 
We must set up this European air transport safety organization with proper safety checks at all European airports to ensure the safety of those European passengers using those carriers and those European residents near Community airports receiving them . 
Madam President , the Minutes of Wednesday Part I , page 1 , sub-paragraph , ' the following spoke on the new rules ' . 
That is in the official record . 
I note the last sentence of the next paragraph which states ` The President replied that the new rules were being applied for the first time ' . 
If there is a procedure for new rules , this House has to agree to them . 
One gets a little tired of raising points of order on something so clear but it nevertheless is in the Minutes and it is incorrect . 
Madam President , I raise the report of the speech of Mr Titley in the report of proceedings of yesterday on the debate on Iraq . 
I ask the President to give a ruling as to whether this requires a personal statement from me and from the Member concerned , Mr Titley . 
He said in his speech ' I have never heard a speech of such distorted self-indulgent drivel than that which Mr Kerr give a short while ago . ' 
Clearly many Members would agree with that and that is decent political debate . 
However , he goes on to say ' I now know that care in the community in the United Kingdom does not work ' which is clearly an indication about my mental health . 
You may think that is true as well , but I suspect , under the Rules of this House , you are not allowed to cast aspersions on Members ' mental health . 
I would ask you to make a judgement on whether I can make my three minutes ' personal response . 
Can I also indicate that , as shown on page 25 of the Rainbow , I asked Mr Henderson , the Minister for Foreign Affairs , whether it was true that the Financial Times had reported that Britain is preparing to use nuclear weapons against Iraq . 
He said in his reply to me that Mr Cook , Foreign Secretary , had denied this in the House of Commons . 
Madam President , I share Mr Smith 's viewpoint on these matters but I would like to return briefly to the Rules , the implementing measures , the procedures or the diktat from the Bureau . 
Yesterday the House agreed to allow Mrs Fontaine as President in the Chair then to conduct the sitting in a rather abnormal manner . 
All I seek are assurances that we will return to the instructions from the Bureau and that , when a roll-call is called , you will accept my wish to speak and note my presence at that time if I so desire . 
I hope and trust that you and future Presidents today will implement that particular measure without heeding the ill-advice that comes from your advisers . 
At the outset of the sitting this morning Mr Alex Smith raised the question of a letter which Mr Coates and I had sent out concerning the vote on the debate today . 
The letter was intended to draw attention to Amendment No 12 tabled by the Green Group , asking him to vote against the war . 
But Mr Smith was offended by the letter , so I withdraw the letter today and apologize to Mr Smith . 
Mr President , according to the correspondence , implementation measures and rules we have received from the Bureau , could you please note my presence in the Chamber . 
Mr President , could I again have my presence noted in the Chamber ? 
Mr President , can my presence in the Chamber be noted . 
Mr President , that was a very important statement . 
According to the interpreter you said that my presence would be recorded at all future roll-call votes . 
On occasion I may wish to exercise my right to record my vote . 
Mr President , we see in the Chamber today that at one point it was a very important matter for the individual concerned to explain to the rest of the House why he was voting in a particular way . 
That right has been removed . 
If you look round you will see that there are only two or three Members present , four including yourself . 
Is it not a disgrace that the right of Members has been taken away in this manner ? 
The only people who are suffering are the interpreters who stay here loyally to hear one explanation of vote . 
Mr President , you will note from yesterday 's Minutes that I asked the President-in-Office to rule whether Mr Titley 's personal attack on me casting aspersions on my mental health was a crime against the rules of the House and I ask you to rule on that point . 
You may share his opinion but , of course , I trust that you , as a good guardian of the rules of the House , can say whether under Rule 108 I am entitled to make a personal statement on that response . 
Mr President , thank you for that opportunity . 
Of course it is all good political banter in a way . 
In response I would say that the fact that I voted yesterday with six of my colleagues from the British Labour Group and the Independent Labour Members against the bombing of Baghdad , while Mr Titley with 43 other British Labour Members voted in favour of the bombing of Baghdad , indicates that my mental health is perhaps rather sounder than his . 
I am not recording my presence when I indicate a roll-call vote out of solidarity with yourself and other colleagues who come here Monday to Friday regularly . 
Mr President , on a number of occasions this week mobile phones have again gone off in the Chamber ; this was particularly embarrassing when the President of Portugal was here . 
I wonder if the services could put notices on the glass doors reminding Members to switch off their phones prior to entering the Chamber . 
It is very easy to walk in having forgotten that , and it might just help to eliminate embarrassment in the future . 
I , along with the majority of the Labour Members and my socialist colleagues , voted for that particular amendment . 
Mr Wynn , unfortunately , was in the minority on that occasion . 
Mr President , it is just very specifically on what you have said , because you are the second Vice-President this morning who has referred to the different system . 
Mr Martin said that the roll-call votes on Friday did not count and you also have made a distinction . 
I wish you would make it very clear to the President and the Vice-Presidents that these votes count : they are very important indeed . 
I would ask your services to look at that and see if this question about the structural funds could be transferred so that it gets an answer from the Commissioner concerned . 
Mr President , I very much welcome the extension in the Maastricht Treaty to joint competence for safety between the Member States and the European Union . 
I also give a warm welcome to the Commission communication and to Mr Cornelissen 's excellent report . 
However , the real way forward to improve road safety is to ensure compliance with existing regulations . 
Currently the situation is that some countries fail to apply the regulations in force , while other countries , like my own , gold-plate the regulations with additional conditions . 
We should instead take tougher action against persistent drunk drivers who are currently offending and causing road accident deaths and injuries where they are three or four times over the existing limit . 
I hope the Commission will contrast that with the proposed action against insulin-dependent diabetic drivers in the United Kingdom , which is out of all proportion to any likely danger they would pose on the roads . 
I ask the Commissioner today , is this compatible with road safety in a single European market ? 
I urge the Commissioner and this House to take action . 
In accordance with the Bureau 's instruction , please note my presence in the Chamber . 
Madam President , I am sorry that I must rise . 
I am usually kind to your good self but I have to protest . 
I ask you to carry out the Bureau 's instructions in these matters . 
At the last session you said that you were following a course of action which was not to be used as a precedent . 
Therefore I hope and trust that you will carry out the Bureau 's petty instructions . 
Madam President , I wished to indicate that I was going to participate in that vote . 
Would you please follow the Bureau 's instructions ! 
Madam President , this particular matter has been debated long and hard in this Chamber over the last session and this session . 
If Mr Corbett wishes to change that , he should take it back to the Socialist Group . 
They just express the view that they do not wish to vote . 
If Mr Corbett wants to push anything , perhaps he might support my call - which I made in previous Parliaments - for the Members of this Parliament to have a vote on this issue to clear up the matter once and for all . 
I would be quite happy to participate in that vote . 
Once we have got rid of the anomaly which the Bureau has created , we can then get back to the business of this Parliament . 
Until that time it would be far better for Mr Corbett to leave aside his institutional matters and put his political hat on . 
Perhaps then we can have politics entering the discussion . 
Madam President , it is not on the questions raised by the Socialist Group . 
I simply wish it to be recorded that I was not here to vote on some of the earlier motions because of air traffic control . 
I regret this particularly since I drafted an opinion on Mrs Kuhn 's report . 
It was simply air traffic control that prevented me from being in Strasbourg on time . 
Mr President , I am most disappointed that the Commissioner simply ignored the very simple question that I put . 
Does the Commissioner not share my concern that whereas people who persistently drive with two or three times over the legal limit and who cause death and injury are allowed to continue to drive after quite a short prison sentence , innocent diabetic , insulin-dependent drivers are being prevented from driving now in the UK ? 
Would it not be better for the Commission to concentrate on enforcing existing rules before applying new ones ? 
Mr President , the background to this report is clearly the two devastating accidents involving first the Herald of Free Enterprise and more recently the Estonia and the international obligations which Member States undertook in the SOLAS regulation agreed in 1995 . 
Ferry companies in the UK already register the number of passengers . 
The main problem with the proposal in its present form is that it will pose practical problems for ferry operations , particularly crossChannel operations , to process the details of names , addresses and special needs in the event of accident , in what is already a very competitive market . 
The Commission has made a very strong case that the background to this proposal is to increase safety . 
Mr Watts has highlighted the fact that if this is to increase safety , this precaution must also be extended to passengers travelling by Eurotunnel . 
In the event of fire it is just as important to record the details of passengers travelling by Eurotunnel to ensure their safe evacuation in the event of a fire . 
I remind the House that there has already been one serious fire that could have led , sadly , to an even bigger disaster . 
Even more necessary is the requirement of names , addresses and passenger details in the event of death so that the next of kin can be informed in the event of such a Eurotunnel disaster . 
My message to the Commission is very simple : the minimum must be a level , competitive playing field ensuring maximum safety for passengers , regardless of whether they are travelling by ferry or by Eurotunnel . 
A situation in which passengers travelling by Eurotunnel were placed at a disadvantage would be totally unacceptable . 
Mr President , there is always one person who is on the other side of the argument and today it seems as if it is going to be me . 
I personally always have difficulty when it comes to restricting the rights of the individual . 
The measure that is being proposed today - the recording of names , sex , age , children , and so on - is in fact a stab in the back for the free movement of people within the European Community . 
This measure is going to add - as far as the UK is concerned - a cost of 2.5 million a year . 
For checking-in , whether it be at the Tunnel or at a ferry , it is going to add , perhaps , at least another hour to that journey and it is going to make any surface or undersea travel less competitive as against air travel . 
So what are we trying to do in what we are proposing ? 
The Road Transport Association has said in a statement that registration of passengers on ferries on the Dover-Calais route in particular will cause considerable inconvenience . 
It could harm our trade when people are trying to meet deadlines . 
This , lumped on top of the loss of duty-free , will put the ferries out of business and will have a seriously damaging effect on freight to and from Britain . 
May I say at this point , irrespective of where future discussions on investment procedures are held , whether it be at the OECD , the WTO , or UNCTAD , we would appreciate it if those who are in charge of our affairs would be a bit more transparent in their handling of them . 
We parliamentarians should be at the forefront of the discussions , not at the tail-end . 
Parliament has to be congratulated on producing this report . 
We apparently can not agree to change the voluntary code of guidelines into a compulsory one . 
A statement from Mr Charles Bridge of the DTI , on the voluntary status of the OECD guidelines , says that the emergent majority view is that the voluntary status should be unchanged . 
But he goes on to say that the OECD countries have , since 1991 , been under a binding obligation to set up national contact points for undertaking promotional activities , handling enquiries and discussing with parties concerned on all matters related to the guidelines . 
We may want to consider exactly what these national contact points have achieved . 
According to the trade union advisory committee from the OECD , the results of their studies suggest that with a few notable exceptions the national contact points are reactive rather than proactive and do little to fulfil their terms of reference . 
Some national trade union centres which did not respond to the survey stated that there was little to report due to the fact that the national contact points in their country had fallen into abeyance . 
It was also reported that requests for information on the guidelines were often ignored and this has led to a high degree of apathy amongst many TUC affiliates towards the NCPs , that is , the national contact points . 
The report goes on to ask : ' has the national contact point in your country consulted the trade unions on its terms of reference ? ' . 
The Swedish national contact point is the only one to consult trade unions proactively . 
The Belgian national contact point does so reactively and all other affiliates replied negatively . 
So perhaps the Commission could advise us of what steps it can take , if it is going to pursue the voluntary code , to actually beef up the national contact points to make sure they become relevant to those people who are meant to be served by the multilateral agreement on investments . 
This would be a step towards democracy and the Commission should embrace it . 
Does this mean that the Commission will take no action to forbid the issue of tickets which have already been sold , even though many of these tickets have not yet been issued but merely applied for ? 
Can the Commissioner guarantee that if the Treaties have been infringed , then formal infringement procedures will be initiated ? 
Or is the Commission seeking merely a sop to football fans stitched up with the CFO in a cosy compact in the changing rooms ? 
While I thank the Commissioner for that response , I have to say I am deeply disappointed . 
In areas like Essex , Suffolk , Yorkshire and Cumbria , substantial job losses through the peace dividend have been suffered in defencerelated industries . 
In particular , if you were to take two towns - Witham and Chelmsford - where the companies of Marconi and EEV operate , the substantial reduction to the workforce is quite worrying . 
What assurance can the Commissioner give me tonight that areas like these , where they have benefited substantially from a programme tailor-made to defence-industry job cuts and training schemes to help those people who have lost their jobs through the peace dividend , will continue to benefit to the same extent as at the moment ? 
That is the question . 
They are going to be competing for a smaller pot of money under three broad objectives with no direct funds for defence cuts . 
I wish to advise you , therefore , that my presence is not only in the House today but it will be voting also . 
Mr President , my point of order relates to the use you made of the word ` Rules ' . 
I have always maintained , in previous points of order when this first came up , that if it was a change of Rules - and it must be a Rule if it has political ramifications which cash-for-votes certainly has - it has to go to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure , the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and then be discussed by this House . 
You referred to the Rules from the Quaestors . 
You have given away the case that I have supported all along . 
This is a change in the Rules which has political ramifications ! 
It should go to the Rules Committee and come before this House in the normal way . 
Mr President , I rise on two simple points . 
One is in reply to the allegation made by Mr Pasty that you treat this side of the House differently than you are treating that side of the House . 
I am sure that your secretariat and others will have noted that I too asked for a point of order immediately after Brian Crowley was refused his . 
Therefore Mr Pasty you should withdraw that allegation . 
The second point I would like to make is that we can not continue with an interpretation made by one President and a different interpretation made by another President . 
We have a simple note from the Quaestors ; surely the Quaestors should stand up and give their interpretation of their note to clarify the situation . 
Madam President , I was privileged to be on the ASEAN delegation that visited Malaysia and Singapore in January . 
We did not meet the Prime Ministers of Malaysia or Singapore as they were both away but we met the Foreign Ministers and we were very well received . 
They were also very interested in EMU and were of the opinion that it would be of assistance in the global monetary situation where they have crashed so badly . 
In today 's press I notice that one editorial suggests that Indonesia is facing a total collapse and that the re-elected Suharto has said that he is not going to keep to the conditions of the IMF . 
This is very serious for the whole process . 
We must encourage democracy and human rights in all these countries . 
We also visited the Department of Forestry in Malaysia and were rather impressed by environmental concerns there . 
I think we could offer more help to their projects . 
We want to see the dialogue expanded to culture , social affairs and politics in all the countries . 
We also met NGOs and would like to see more encouragement from the European Union to these hard-working bodies . 
I think I speak for all the women on this . 
I would like to say that I am pleased with the mention of small businesses . 
We in Scotland have a lot of these and we have a high exporting rate and success with quality goods , but I would ask if she would look again at the cheap money scheme of the European Investment Bank which involved banks all over the European Union and which was terribly effective , but seems to have come to a bit of a standstill . 
I was pleased also that the structural funds were mentioned , because here am I with my heart in my mouth being told by the Commissioner , on the decision of whether the Highlands and Islands continues as Objective 1 , that there is nowhere unique in Europe . 
I am hoping that the President-in-Office supports rather the view of the Secretary of State for Scotland , Donald Dewar , who is arguing for continuation for the very reason that we are unique . 
Competitiveness depends in particular on the costs of distance , climate , small communities and sparse population - the sparsest in the Community and often called the last wilderness although it is a man-made wilderness . 
We are not dealing with the demise of an industry in our use of Objective 1 money in the Highlands and Islands , we are dealing with the demise of a people . 
We have been losing our young generation for decades and only now is Objective 1 beginning to have the correct effect and to retain our young people for the first time in generations . 
I do hope , therefore , that you will support the Secretary of State for Scotland in his battle for Objective 1 . 
Could the President-in-Office confirm to the House today that the Presidency is minded to allow a mandate to the Commission to undertake a study of the economic impact and any potential job losses consequent on the current decision that duty-free will cease and excise duties will apply as normal as from 1 July 1999 . 
If he is able to confirm that , it is very welcome news indeed , bearing in mind that in the constituency of North Essex and South Suffolk we have both the port of Harwich and Stansted airport . 
Perhaps the Presidency is not aware but KLM , which now operates out of the airport , has announced job losses already consequent on this decision taking place in 15 months ' time . 
I hope he is able to confirm that to the House this afternoon . 
Mr President , I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very good report and to refer to a growing problem within the European Union , that is , the demographic trends and the fact that people are living longer . 
These trends present a very strong economic challenge to the European Union , particularly as we are coming up to the new millennium . 
As Mr Cabezón highlights in his report , increasing longevity , allied to declining fertility of younger generations , has resulted in a growing number of older people in our society compared with those who are still working or economically active . 
Currently , within the European Union there are 48 million people over 65 , 20 million of whom are over 75 , so that gives some indication of the problem . 
If we turn to my own country , Scotland , the figures show a similar trend . 
In 1996 , 20.18 % of the population were over 58 . 
By 2006 , ten years later , this will rise to 24.6 % and by 2036 it will rise to 31 % - almost a third . 
We must ensure economic security for older people in the face of growing social costs . 
We must ensure that older people remain integrated in society and that solidarity between the generations is promoted and older people are assured dignity and non-discrimination in their twilight years . 
In Scotland and throughout most of the EU , older people face a serious threat of economic insecurity and growing inequality . 
However , until a few years ago , out of all the European governments only the UK 's own last government had decided to cut the level of maintenance to senior citizens . 
I am pleased to say that within the European Union the British Conservative government was the exception . 
However , since the election last May we have had a change in climate , a change of environment , and we have had measures which help the elderly . 
Across Europe , not just in the United Kingdom and not just in Scotland , all governments are facing a challenge . 
We must introduce policies which recognize the fact that our people are getting older . 
The demographic trends are such that there are fewer people in the younger age range and more in the older age range and we must look at these changes . 
I am very glad to tell the Members present tonight that we have got the proposals for a pensioners ' assembly . 
In October of this year , we will be putting forward the Social Affairs Committee 's points of view , this Parliament 's points of view on this trend , to make recommendations to the United Nations for the Year of the Elderly . 
Mr President , I too congratulate Johanna on her very good report . 
It is very appropriate that we should be discussing this tonight because tomorrow of course the conference on enlargement of the European Union begins in London and the key role of training in preparation for enlargement is very important . 
I am a little sceptical sometimes of European foundations in European institutes and I have visited a few in my time . 
Speaking on behalf of the Green group in particular , I would like obviously to stress the importance of training in environmental management and monitoring given the environmental problems of central and eastern European countries . 
Mr President , I do like the sigh of relief when I rise in this place . 
I put a question to you : has the Secretariat been advised in writing of any persons in the room who wish it to be recorded that they will be present in the Chamber during roll-call votes ? 
My reason for asking this question is that I notice in the Minutes of yesterday 's meeting that Mr McMillanScott , Mr Janssen van Raay and others had put a written statement into the Secretariat , advising them that they would be present but not voting . 
Does not this bypass the very procedure and intent and purpose of the original Bureau 's decision ? 
I ask this as a serious point because if the Bureau 's decision was to discipline us in some manner then it is quite easy to bypass it by putting a statement in writing and then walking out that door . 
The Quaestors ' note was quite clear : that it should be on the vote , and the vote means that vote which is about to take place and not to pre-empt that vote in any way whatsoever . 
I trust , Mr President , you will carry out the Quaestors ' instructions in association with the Bureau 's instructions to ensure that Members are present and either voting or not voting . 
Mr President , would you be prepared to clarify the voting procedure on the Bontempi report because we do have a voting session this evening and I question why you said it would be taken tomorrow ? 
I would not like colleagues to be under any illusions of when this will take place . 
A simple answer of yes or no to that question will suffice . 
Mr President , you did not really answer my question because you said ` verbal ' . 
A simple ` yes ' or ` no ' answer will suffice . 
Mr President , I wish to say to the Commissioner that Liberals in this House are deeply disappointed with his statement today . 
This is the first billion-dollar World Cup . 
The organizers have put national restrictions on ticket sales in breach of Article 85 of the Treaties . 
They are abusing a dominant market position in breach of Article 86 . 
The Commission was warned of this in June of last year in a letter from Professor Weatherill at Oxford University . 
I am told that the Commission then had discussions with the CFO , who may have been less than honest with the Commission . 
Liberals in this House call on the Commission , as guardian of the Treaties , to show the organizers the red card . 
To those who say you can not scrap an entire ticket system four months before the World Cup , we say : if it is illegal , it must be scrapped . 
If the Commission decides there are good reasons to let it proceed , it must , at least , prosecute and fine the CFO . 
Finding new arrangements to redistribute just 5 % will not do . 
It is a sop to fans , stitched up with the CFO , and a cosy compact in changing rooms . 
We are calling foul , and if we are not allowed to go to the stadia , then we may go to the courts . 
Madam President , the Commissioner has half-heartedly tackled FIFA on this matter . 
What use is a slide tackle from Commissioner van Miert when you are dealing with people like Havelange and Lennart Johansen ? 
The same thing happened with freedom of movement : the Commission went very half-heartedly on this issue . 
They really have to strengthen their tackling - they really must get to grips with the situation . 
We are as concerned as the Commission for the Community citizen . 
We are particularly concerned , and I am particularly concerned for the members of the Tartan army who are hoping to come from Scotland to see Scotland play Brazil and the ordinary fan is not going to be given the opportunity at all . 
This week two tickets for the World Cup sold for # 19 000 in Glasgow . 
That is almost more than some of the ordinary people earn in about two years . 
What opportunity will there be for ordinary people if these inflated prices are charged by whoever is organizing this World Cup ? 
As other members have said , it is up to the Commission to take strong action . 
It is up to us in the Joint Assembly to be seeking an overall view of the whole Joint Assembly on the important issues we face . 
We know that it would be inconceivable in this Assembly for the Spanish delegation , the German delegation or the British delegation to have some kind of veto on the decisions of this Assembly because of a system of voting in separate blocks . 
It is a great service to emphasize this . 
I also have some sympathy with what Mr Macartney has said about caution . 
I feel that the case for what is described as a single college for voting , is not that we can , as Europeans , be explaining to our ACP colleagues what democracy and human rights and self-determination is about . 
In this Assembly and the Joint Assembly we too often see European arrogance going mad . 
Despite my complimentary remarks , I am not too happy with some of the wording in paragraphs 17 and 18 of the motion for a resolution , where phrases like ` the ACP partners must be made to understand ' what the European views are on democracy . 
Mr Blokland has made a very important point that we should not in any way give the impression that we want to impose views that are very specific European views . 
Mr Robles Piquer knows that in this Assembly itself we have had an example fairly recently of a leader of a political group in this Assembly and , not so long ago , someone who became chairman of the Group of the European People 's Party being involved in an exercise of abusing our voting system - a system which is sometimes , I am told , called ` playing the piano ' in the European Parliament , where we have people pressing more than one button and pressing the buttons of absent friends . 
Or for example when we emphasize voter education . 
I was in Namibia for the independence elections . 
The more we make that clear in our work in the Assembly , the more we will achieve a real partnership . 
I rise to advise Mr Tillich that he is wrong : the Bureau 's instructions were Tuesday , Wednesday and Thursday with no time limit set on Thursday . 
Therefore the votes last night did count . 
I was just contemplating Mr Tillich 's excellent point . 
Perhaps the Bureau could investigate whether those of us who have stayed here Monday to Friday can recoup some of the bonuses which are withdrawn from those who have not participated in the vote during Tuesday , Wednesday and Thursday . 
That would be an excellent way of encouraging Members to come here on Friday . 
Mr President , this is a very technical report and it is not necessary to go into a lot of detail because it is just a question of Parliament approving something to allow certain measures to be taken by the Commission which I and my political group wholly endorse . 
As Hugh McMahon , the rapporteur , has pointed out , this is really a conservation measure and this Parliament will want to support anything that the Commission brings forward by way of conservation measures 
Regarding the Mediterranean as such there are one or two important problems there . 
Having said that I would just raise with Mr McMahon and perhaps with the Commission the question of Amendment No 1 , because it does appear to me that the rapporteur is trying to pay compliments to his own government back in the United Kingdom . 
I would suggest to the rapporteur that Amendment No 1 is trying to be congratulatory of one government in the Council when we should be looking at the Council 's overall position rather than an individual government . 
Mr President , I have come to the conclusion of my remarks but I would just say that we fully support the Commission 's endeavours in this area . 
Mr President , I believe I might be able to accept that amendment , but I think that it should be reworded slightly to say : ' whereas the priorities of the Council should be a phasing out ' . 
Mr President , as rapporteur I have to defend the committee 's position , but I will leave it to the wisdom of the House to decide what to do . 
I know that Mr Provan spoke on this in the debate and his group actually voted for that amendment in the committee when we made the reference . 
Maybe a reference to the Council might be more felicitous than the UK presidency . 
I will leave it to the House to decide on that , rather than mention one Member State in the Council . 
Madam President , I wish to intervene to support Mrs Green in this . 
I regret to say that the information you have been given is simply incorrect . 
The point I made to Mrs Green is that if we humble back benchers had not been travelling with the leader of a political group , for example , we could have found ourselves stranded . 
What particularly concerns me in a year in which France is hosting the World Cup is that there has only been one Member State affected in this way . 
The information we have been given , which was confirmed to me by Air France on my arrival in this building , is that all flights this week have been cancelled . 
We are in a very difficult situation because Air France operates a complete monopoly to the United Kingdom and it would be a very regrettable situation if British MEPs were prevented from voting and representing their constituencies here through an administrative hiccup with an airline . 
I urge you to check and verify the information you have been given because I am told there will be no direct flight to London this week . 
Mr President , the draft directive on airport charges has proved to be a difficult and complicated report for the Committee on Transport and Tourism , which involved the rapporteur trying to incorporate the different needs and various systems which exist in the 15 Member States . 
The final compromise report we have ended up with is in danger of satisfying no-one . 
The Group of the Party of European Socialists will , therefore , seek to restore many of the points in the rapporteur 's original text . 
There are a number of main issues which I would comment on . 
Article 1 considers the minimum size of airports to be affected . 
We felt that as this directive is part of a body of legislation aimed at dealing with various aspects of airports there ought to be some degree of consistency , and the figure we have chosen would fit in with those appropriate to the groundhandling directive . 
In the same article , we support the decision of the rapporteur to introduce the concept of national airport networks . 
The way to some agreement is to support national airport networks being included whilst , at the same time , building on and strengthening the conditions which would apply to their use . 
Cash subsidies should be allowed in circumstances where either the major airport was congested and the state wished to develop an alternative regional airport or the regional airport is reliant on feeding the national hub for the majority of its business . 
I am opposed , however , to attempts by the EPP Group to restrict national airport systems to peripheral areas or to domestic flights . 
I shall support the original compromise Amendment No 3 , which related to changes in Article 4 ( 1 ) . 
It is important in airports which are run as commercial entities that they retain the flexibility to apply non-aeronautical income to subsidise aeronautical charges at their own discretion . 
Article 4 ( 1 ) should therefore include the words ` the managing body of an airport may take account of all or part of the airport 's income that is not derived from airport charges when establishing the total level of its charges ' . 
It is even more important that the other changes between compromise Amendment No 3 and Amendment No 9 are reinstated , specifically that allowing the cost of financing facilities which have the express consent of the majority of users and of their representative bodies through consultation arrangements under Article 7 . 
Reliance on this original wording , put forward by the Commission , is ambiguous and would effectively lead to substantial delays to development . 
For example , in the United Kingdom , BAA is having to fund advance works for the cost of its Terminal 5 inquiry . 
The users accept that these can be recovered from charges , whether or not the development goes ahead , because they support the project . 
If such costs could not be recovered , there would be a positive disincentive for airports to invest in new development . 
Finally , I support the proposals for consultation , as laid down by the rapporteur . 
I oppose penalties , and our group will be voting against the idea of penalties , which would only have to be paid by the airports anyway , and on the dates for implementation we support the original Commission proposal . 
Mr President , airports are very important in the economic life of the Union and regional airports are of crucial importance . 
So regional airports are of significant importance within the Union . 
The report which we have in front of us deals with the question of charges and I agree with Mr Megahy that the report has a lot of faults and failings . 
The Commission 's original proposal is obviously better and the final report is a bit of a dog 's breakfast and really could be amended . 
The important thing which some of the other colleagues have touched on is this question of peripheral nations . 
Like Mrs Ewing , I think that it should be peripheral airports because if we look at the question of the lower limit which the EPP voted for in committee this would mean that small airports like those which Mr Hume , Mrs Ewing , and Mr Gerry Collins use would each be covered by the legislation ; these are all very small airports and yet they are vital to the economy of their regions . 
It is important that we go for the higher limit which the Socialist Group is suggesting . 
Mr President , it gives me great pleasure to support Mr Väyrynen 's report and this Commission proposal . 
Clearly , such a directive is needed , but the directive should not impose restrictions on commercial operations of airports or unnecessary administrative burdens on airports or those regulating them . 
What is particularly important is that we should raise the standards of service but leave commercial matters for airports to decide , in consultation with the both the airlines and any relevant consumer organizations . 
The directive as currently drafted makes insufficient provision for the transparency of arrangements at airports and consultation of users that we in this House would wish to see . 
Mr President , I welcome Mr Wijsenbeek 's report and congratulate him on the work he has put in . 
I particularly welcome the fact that this proposal - the common position - aims to improve the enforcement of tachograph provisions . 
We all agree that social legislation relating to professional drivers ' hours is widely abused under the current system . 
For example , it is not certain that the technical committee will have completed the technical specification for digital tachographs this year . 
The technical requirements under IB are rigorous . 
Recording equipment in the vehicle must be able to hold one year 's driver 's hours data and the driver-specific smartcard must be capable of holding at least 28 days of data . 
Unfortunately , I do not share Mr Castricum 's confidence that the ministers will have sorted this out in time - i.e. the technical specification question . 
I sincerely hope that the Commission and the Council can accept this proposal . 
Mr President , like the others , I thank Mr Pronk for his work . 
I am struck by the degree of consensus there usually is on this important subject right across the parliamentary groups . 
I come from an area with a tremendously sparse population and I have to ask : what is small ? 
In many parts of my area small would not be 50 employees ; that would be big . 
I join with the honourable Member who appealed for a special set of rules for the micro SMEs . 
Some of the most innovative schemes in my constituency have started off with five to ten employees , sometimes in quite remote places . 
If the idea is good enough remoteness can often be overcome . 
There is one in Skye where scientifically skilled people , working in tiny areas , create instruments to measure various parts of the body for various purposes . 
The thing produced is so small that it is not costly to despatch it to all parts of the world . 
That business started off with two men and now it employs about 30 top scientists who are happy to live on Skye . 
It can often be that something starting in a tiny way can become very important to the whole community . 
We could all give examples like that . 
Mostly these small businesses have the problem of a narrow investment base and that is what we are trying to address . 
I welcome the three schemes which Mr Pronk has so ably described . 
However , one has to say that once the small business has got over the start-up problem and shown some success in job creation , what happens then ? 
That is when the test comes . 
Very often in my country - and in others - they go into bankruptcy because of late payment and the lack of a code for that . 
There was a programme recently on the BBC which suggests that the Commission is about to introduce a directive on this subject . 
I hope so . 
It is late payment that undoes all the work we are trying to do here , and often the culprits are big companies , local authorities and , I have to say , institutions of the European Union . 
They are all at fault in driving many of these companies - who have managed to get over the hurdle of getting started and creating jobs - out of business . 
The old schemes worked rather well , once we managed to get quite a lot of banks to support the European Investment Bank guarantee system . 
We have not really had a proper evaluation , as one speaker said , of performance in terms of cost per job . 
A lot of companies simply do not receive information about the EIB , not even about the important work being done by European Information Centres . 
For example , there is one excellent centre in Inverness , but it does not receive enough funds to disseminate the fact that it is there and what it can offer . 
I welcome this report with all its merits and hope it will be passed unanimously . 
I have a copy of the document you are referring to and I am absolutely astounded by it . 
I find it an affront to democracy in this House . 
I have been a Member here for 14 years and have taken a great interest in Question Time . 
I know we have had problems , and we have had changes . 
I remember when we tried to change it before : Mrs Dury put forward a long report from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure , the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and there was a great deal of debate and discussion by Members . 
What the Bureau seems to be resorting to here is diktat from on high , and it is very anti-democratic . 
One of the benefits of publishing the names of the Commissioners who were going to answer questions was that if Members had , for example , an environment question , they could table it well in advance , knowing that they would receive a straightforward and knowledgeable answer from the Commissioner for the environment . 
They would be unlikely to get someone else who had simply been handed a dossier , who was unacquainted with its contents and would just give a completely unsatisfactory off-the-cuff answer . 
If you knew in advance that the individual Commissioner for that portfolio was going to reply , that would be advantageous . 
So I feel this is a very retrograde step . 
There has been no discussion on this in the political groups nor with the Members , and I take great offence at the dictatorial and high-handed attitude the Bureau has adopted . 
I will raise this in my own political group and would urge other Members to do the same . 
With regard to the actual situation , could I ask the Commissioner to look at certain areas where companies of fifty are really large companies and where the concept of a small company is nearer ten . 
In areas like my constituency of the Highlands and Islands , it is often these companies that one looks to for job creation . 
Would it not be possible for the Commission to consider an additional approach to give even more favourable treatment to the micro-small business ? 
On the same issue , it is not just in getting the honourable Member 's name wrong that the administration have boobed , in actual fact the question of restraint of trade is a question for Mr Monti because he is the one who has put the paper before the Commission and he is down for questions , so I do not see why it was tabled in the wrong section . 
Secondly , why could you not give permission for it to be answered at the time when Mr Monti answered questions later on ? 
In view of his last answer , would the Commissioner close down the duty-free shop in the Commission for Commission staff such as himself ? 
Seriously though , my question is : what confidence will European citizens have in the Commission , given that Commissioner Scrivener promised away back in 1991 to carry out a study ? 
As the Commission has reneged on its promise , what confidence is this going to give the European Union in the Commission 's honesty , integrity and determination to listen to elected representatives of the European population ? 
Mr President , I would like to refer to pages 20 and 21 of the English version concerning Question Time and the conduct of Question Time . 
So I would like to know what was the rationale behind it , given that political groups have not discussed this ; and I am asking you , as the person in charge of the organization here , to make a clear and categorical statement of why you arrived at this decision and whether it will be kept under review . 
Mr President , I was interested in your reply to Mr McMahon when you said that if there was any alteration to the rules or the procedures you would obviously refer them to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure , the Verification of Credentials and Immunities . 
Given my interest in the voting in this Parliament during lunchtime , perhaps it is too late for that matter to be referred to the Rules Committee . 
However , given that this is the last month that this will take place , can you give me and this House an assurance that any changes which are to take place regarding Members ' interests will be put to the Members of this House the way the change in the Members ' voting procedure should have been put to this House in January ? 
Mr President , this very long and detailed report follows on from the Martens report . 
For the first time the Commission communication allows Parliament to state its views on the guidelines put forward by the Commission for the negotiation of new cooperation agreements with the ACP . 
Much praise is due to Mr Rocard for this superb and detailed report . 
Even more pleasing is the fact that Parliament 's views are closely aligned with the Commission 's thoughts . 
Parliament has to consider two major questions : should ACP-EU cooperation continue after 2000 and , if so , in what form ? 
The answer to the first is a resounding ` yes ' . 
There should be a new and different relationship which adapts to the new world challenges and is based on a proper partnership . 
A number of areas have to be considered . 
This should be based on human development sustainability with sound macro-economic policies , social justice and the rule of law . 
The political consensus which has been reached on both sides is an understandable political choice in the face of the worldwide challenges of the 21st century . 
This in itself should lead to new forms of economic partnership . 
Poverty alleviation , popular economy , micro-credits and gender matters : all lead to conflict prevention within the regions . 
It is up to the ACP countries themselves to decide on the speed of change and their criteria for that change . 
One of the original features of the Lomé Convention was , on the one hand , including trade and , on the other , upholding provisions in this area designed to encourage the diversification and development of the ACP countries . 
Sadly , efforts to improve trade have not been successful and many developing countries have much reduced export trade compared with ten years ago . 
Regional cooperation should give them the strength to improve this situation . 
I am delighted to see that the Joint Assembly is now to be called the Parliamentary Joint Assembly as this will strengthen democracy , and my group fully supports this report . 
Madam President , I would also like to congratulate our colleague Mrs Gröner on achieving the 323 signatures . 
However , as usual I rise on the voting procedure . 
I advise you now that I will be present and voting so you will have no problems . 
However , I note that the voting list distributed to Members advises Members when there will be a roll-call vote . 
There are ten roll-call votes for this particular session . 
Two or three could be added to this making perhaps twelve to thirteen . 
Therefore , if I stay for seven roll-call votes , I could then leave having completed the 50 % . 
These rules are absurd , the way the Bureau treats them is absurd and the quicker they are removed the better . 
Speaking as the Member for Elgin - where we are very ashamed of the past history of Lord Elgin - I wish to say to the President-in-Office that by way of follow up to Mrs Castellina , who is chairman of the Committee on Culture , Youth , Education and the Media , I was chairman of that committee in 1985 when it passed a report which included the restoration of works of art in the broader sense of Mr Bertens . 
On the day that Greece took its seat I lodged a resolution to restore the Elgin marbles . 
I wish to remind everyone of the excellent precedent created recently by England when it returned Scotland 's Stone of Destiny to Scotland . 
I wish to congratulate the President-in-Office on his last answer . 
I agreed very much and , therefore , it reinforces the problems of those countries not in the euro . 
I single out here the British economy and the UK . 
Would he not agree that the situation in Britain is that not being part of the euro is damaging British industry ? 
We are seeing high interest rates in the UK , which are having a detrimental effect ; we are seeing an overvalued pound , which is likely to lose a hundred thousand jobs in the UK economy next year . 
Would it not be better for the President-in-Office to advise the British government that the best way it can bring about stability in Europe and stability in Britain is to declare an early entry into the ERM and an early date for joining the euro ? 
Perhaps he ought to tell Mr Blair to stand up to Mr Murdoch and the Sun and declare in favour of that . 
That would be the best thing to help the British economy and help stabilize Europe . 
Mr President , it arises from the Minutes and the session news , which record my splendid contribution in which I attacked the British Government for its failure to join the single currency , thereby sacrificing 100 000 jobs in Britain . 
Perhaps we could have it corrected to recognize that I am an independent Labour member who sits with the Green Group in the Parliament . 
Mr President , I would like to inform you that I am present in the Chamber , I am voting and my machine is voting . 
Mr President , does not the advice you just issued to Mrs Jackson defeat the object of the exercise ? 
If we know there are no roll-call votes we can all go out now and have lunch ! 
Mr President , you may notice looking around the room that there are a large number of my colleagues who can not be here tonight because of the flight arrangements that make it difficult to get back to London and the UK generally from Strasbourg . 
My colleagues send their apologies but I think it is very difficult for any Member of this House to carry out their duties when they can not get to and from here , as was raised by Mrs Green on trying to get here earlier this week . 
The problems of getting home from Strasbourg are just as bad and colleagues have had to leave here at lunchtime today so that they can be home for tomorrow morning . 
That is a ridiculous situation and I hope that this will be looked at by Parliament 's Bureau because you have made decisions regarding Members and their voting records here that are now being disrupted by the travel arrangements that they have to make to travel to and from Strasbourg . 
Mr President , this House probably knows that , representing the Highlands and Islands , I have a great connection with the Scotch whisky industry with its hundreds of distilleries and hundreds of types of whisky - a very important employer in areas where there is often no alternative employment . 
What annoys me is that this was promised by the tax Commissioner in November 1990 and May 1991 . 
I am still wondering if we could get an explanation from the Commission as to why the promise was not kept . 
We have had other studies of course . 
We have had a study from a research department of Parliament which has caused some of the concern among citizens because , as Mr Cornelissen said , we do not know how many jobs are at stake . 
But there are estimates that far more than 40 000 jobs may be lost , and this at a time of enormously high unemployment . 
The effect on peripheral areas would be very serious because , as I have said already , such areas have very few employment alternatives . 
We have received justifications from the Council for a refusal to reconsider this matter . 
We have not yet managed to tax in accordance with any sensible rule , for instance alcohol strength . 
The second justification - there are probably many others that the Commissioner might be able to put forward - is that ECU 2 billion is the cost of the loss in duties . 
But some of the studies suggest there is no proof that amount would be made up even if duty-free is abolished . 
There is no doubt of course that , in many cases , duty-free affects the cost of airport fares and ferry charges . 
We know that to be true , we do not disguise the fact . 
But I go back to the effect of these costs , if they have to rise in peripheral areas . 
There is enormous concern among the citizenry . 
I know it would have to be unanimous , but please , in view of the concern , could we not ask that the Council look at this again ? 
Mr President , thank you Commissioner Monti for your explanation . 
I think you will actually find , if you look back in the records of this House , that the study has been requested for some time now . 
It is not just a recent phenomenon ; we have been requesting the study for some years now . 
I think that is a point that has to be made at the very start . 
I listened carefully to what you had to say , Commissioner Monti , and I know that on more than one occasion you have said no to carrying out such a study even though it had been previously agreed to . 
I understand the reasons that you have given . 
You have also pointed out in the past that in the intervening period of seven and a half years the duty-free lobby were supposed to run down their operations and in fact what has happened is that the duty-free lobby have done the exact opposite and have expanded it . 
I take those points on board . 
We have noticed that there have been several studies carried out , many of them indicating job losses , some of them indicating the exact opposite . 
Can I say that I do not believe any of them ? 
I do not believe any of the studies from either side because none of them has been carried out by an independent assessor . 
They have all been carried out with vested interests and therefore I think it is appropriate at this time that we have the true picture , the clear picture of what will happen post duty-free . 
That is why we need an independent assessment . 
But as I have heard you say , Commissioner Monti , you are still saying no . 
Can I take you back to a meeting , a joint hearing of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Transport and Tourism which was held last year on the question of duty-free , when you said that you were prepared to look at ways of ameliorating the effects of any unemployment . 
The question I have to ask is how can you look at ways of ameliorating the effects without a study ? 
You tried to turn that slightly in your answer earlier by saying it is up to the individual Member States to look at that and to look at ways of utilizing the Structural Funds by diverting them into those areas that may have unemployment caused by the abolition of duty-free . 
I would say that is not the duty of the Member States because if we do that then all of a sudden we will have a piecemeal policy on the Structural Funds and that is the last thing that we want within this Chamber , especially when we are coming up to the review of the Structural Funds . 
What we have also got to look at is the economic consequences and there are a number of unanswered questions here , too . 
Are they entitled to duty-free or are they entitled to pay duty at the port of departure or are they entitled to pay duty at the port of arrival ? 
Mr President , I rise not on my usual point of order but on something arising from what Mr Herman said . 
I would remind you that the point Mr Herman was making during yesterday 's session was exactly the same point Mrs Randzio-Plath was suggesting in an oral amendment . 
Twelve Members opposed this amendment . 
We then proceeded to the vote and the words were : ' To hold the ECB to account ' . 
Mr President , I want to thank my group for giving me the opportunity to speak on their behalf in what is a truly historic occasion . 
We praise those who found the words . 
I once read the words of a British ambassador to Dublin who said : ' This is a land where words can turn into weapons ' . 
I have to praise also my longstanding friend from the 1960s , John Hume , who has given his lifetime to the process of patient , peaceful talking . 
All the others , the Prime Ministers past and present , the politicians like David Andrews here today and David Trimble for holding the line when many Unionists panicked . 
I read what an IRA man said : ' I joined the IRA when I was 20 . 
I am now in my 40s and I have been to too many funerals ' . 
As the war-weariness set in there began to be a total realization in the minds of everybody that violence was getting nowhere . 
These magnificent politicians have built a bridge of hope and the optimists have beaten the pessimists . 
Real concessions were made . 
We have provided a meeting place for all the parts of Ireland to get together informally and to work together for the benefit of the whole island . 
The silent majority of Ireland want peace ; let them now vote for it ! 
Mr President , it is in helping to solve problems such as those in Northern Ireland that Europe shows its added value to the citizen . 
The idea which inspired our European Union is not just the idea of peace but the idea that what unites us - our common humanity - is more important than what divides us . 
That fundamental creed is summed up in a poem by my fellow countryman , Robert Burns : ' A man 's a man for a ' that ' . 
If the proceedings of this House had been heeded fourteen years ago the ideas put forward by our former Danish colleague , Niels Haagerup , might have held sway . 
If the proposal taken to Downing Street in the early 1980s for a British Isles Youth Forum along the lines of the Council of Europe 's Youth Foundation or the European Community 's Youth Forum had been taken up , we would be further down the path of peace . 
I welcome the Presidency 's recognition of the role that the European Union and others have played in reaching this historic agreement . 
I hope that the Union might serve as a model to Northern Ireland , that so much more can be achieved collectively than apart . 
I look forward to the day when Ministers refer not to the two communities in Northern Ireland but instead to the community . 
My party in Northern Ireland - the Alliance Party - has worked tirelessly for the building of a non-sectarian society . 
It is fitting that the European Union should complement and underpin the peace process through the Peace and Reconciliation Fund . 
Mr President , in accordance with the Bureau 's instructions , I asked for the floor prior to the vote . 
You should have called me prior to that vote . 
My presence should be noted on this occasion for this vote . 
Madam President , my group will be voting against this directive . 
I would like wholeheartedly to endorse what was said by the last two speakers - Mr Ephremidis and the speaker from the Greens - and re-echo all their points about the debasing of the currency of humanity . 
We are really being asked to be the handmaidens of patent law . 
And yet that has been put about , making people who object to this seem unreasonable . 
I take issue with that . 
There is also a contradiction in the way the supporters of this directive are putting it forward . 
They are able to say ` we are against patenting the human body ' , but then they are making it legal to give a patent on an isolated gene on a gene sequence . 
There is a certain misleading aspect to much of this publicity . 
I have a letter from Mr De Clercq , the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens ' Rights , on which I sit , who argues that the present lack of protection is causing a brain drain of research towards the US and Japan . 
I say that is another question altogether . 
There are many false claims being put forward that multinationals will not advance this competitive market of drugs unless they get this particular protection . 
While I am sympathetic to patient groups , many of the patient groups have come to me and said they were misrepresented . 
I do not want to disrupt the proceedings , but I would ask you if you have given permission for that television camera to be present and , if you have , who it is and why they have been given permission to film unruly behaviour in this House which does this House no credit whatsoever ? 
Mr President , as Mr Perry has been so kind as to mention my name , may I advise him that , if he is to follow and adopt my principles in these matters , he may wish to go further . 
The working people of my country , and I am sure all European countries , can recognize conservative Tories , because they are always wearing the same uniform and it is normally double-breasted pin-striped suits ! 
Commissioner , thank you . 
The organization of the 1998 World Cup has been a disgrace : over 60 % of the tickets have been available exclusively to French citizens , despite the intervention of the Commission , the CFO has refused to make even 160 000 tickets available to football fans outside France . 
FIFA and the CFO are making a mockery of European Union law . 
What action will the Commission take unilaterally , and how far will the Commission go in pursuing this ? 
It is no good saying that this hotline is functioning smoothly : any British fan trying to get through to France just knows that ` smooth ' is anything but the description of how it has worked . 
He has had tremendous battles with the United Kingdom authorities , in particular with the previous administration . 
We discovered that the Maritime Marine Agency would not accept his qualifications , although the EU directive said it should . 
There is an aliens act in the UK which goes back to 1911 , which meant that merchant ship officers had to be UK citizens . 
We are waiting for this legislation to be repealed . 
I do not know if the Commissioner is familiar with this . 
I am prepared to pass the correspondence on to him . 
It is very important that we get the qualifications of merchant seaman agreed . 
My point of order is on the central register of Members . 
I trust that other Members of this House will take note and do likewise . 
Mr President , I rise on a point regarding the imposition of the Rule on the 50 % voting on roll-call votes . 
You will recall that you advised this House that this new procedure was going to run for a trial period for three months . 
That three-month period is now over . 
May I ask you if you will be putting to the House any change in these procedures so that the House can then take a democratic vote on it ? 
We are about to discuss the appointment of the Board of the Central Bank . 
I would advise you , Mr President , that while I seem to be alone in my objections to these particular impositions , I can assure you that many Members of this Chamber from all political groups are as concerned as I am about the imposition of Rules from a Bureau which does not make itself accountable to this House . 
Therefore , I would conclude by asking if you will be placing before this House any procedures which will authenticate the current , obscene and daft 50 % ruling , as you have done on the current voting system ? 
Mr President , I am still not entirely clear . 
Are you advising this Chamber that you will be consulting the Bureau to look at the position of the voting system but you will not be putting the decision to the House as a whole ? 
Are you prepared to put any recommendation from the Bureau to the House as a whole ? 
You can not change the conditions without honourable Members ' rights being abused . 
I ask you again if I am correct in my understanding , namely that what you said was that you will put the matter to the Bureau . 
You have had the three-month review . 
I would have thought the Bureau would have discussed it last month . 
If , however , you are going to put it to the Bureau again , are you saying that you will put the Bureau 's decision to this House ? 
Mr President , yet again we see the services allowing television cameras to film demonstrations in this House . 
I should like to welcome the President-in-Office to this other place and ask him if he shares my concern that the informal Council of Environment and Transport Ministers have indicated their desire to introduce a kerosene tax which would have dramatic effects on air travel ? 
Would the minister not accept that , in fact , air transport is probably one of the cleanest , most environmentally friendly ways of transporting people and goods across Europe and that it would be wrong to target air transport in this way ? 
Would he not also agree that imposing a kerosene tax , which I understand is the desire certainly of the Environment Department in the United Kingdom and others across Europe , would have a very detrimental impact on what is an environmentally friendly form of travel and on the local economies and those employed at airports and by airlines ? 
I know Miss McIntosh has to divide her time between two parliaments these days but I wonder whether she is aware that at lunchtime today this Parliament voted against the concept of a kerosene tax and the Labour Members of this Parliament supported that position on the advice of Her Majesty 's Government . 
I wonder whether the minister would welcome that decision ? 
Madam President , Members will recall my question to the President yesterday in this Parliament : he advised us that it would be the Bureau , and only the Bureau , which would review and make decisions relating to the 50 % voting attendance in Chamber during roll call votes . 
This is what the President told us . 
As Members of this Parliament , we believe this is undemocratic . 
We believe that the Bureau is taking decisions which could have a knock-on effect in the future because a precedent is being created . 
Therefore , my presence in the Chamber is noted for this roll call vote . 
I may wish to vote on some occasions but on this occasion I merely wish my presence to be noted . 
I appeal to other Members to do likewise . 
Madam President , my presence in the Chamber should be noted . 
Madam President , that is not what the instructions from the Bureau say . 
The instructions from the Bureau say that you will make it known at the vote . 
I wish to be known at the vote and so therefore I wish to be recorded before the vote takes place . 
That is what the instructions say , so please obey your own instructions . 
Madam President , if the opposite side and other Members in this House wish to bleat like sheep and act like sheep when someone tells them what to do , and then they follow blindly , how can their electorate expect them to represent them ? 
How can the electorate have any faith in this Parliament when their own representatives are being dictated to ? 
Madam President , you said : ' I am not willing to participate in your game ' . 
It was the Bureau that held these instructions down , not Mr Falconer . 
I therefore ask you to withdraw those words ! 
I ask Members of this House to stop behaving like sheep ! 
Madam President , I hope and trust that you will respect my rights . 
Obviously Mr Blak does not want to respect them but that is for his electorate to judge . 
Mr President , I only seek information : can you advise me whether , under the Rules concerning the 50 % voting , the roll calls for urgencies and the roll calls for the Pex report count towards that 50 % ? 
Mr President , we in the European People 's Party are looking forward to a great success in Cardiff . 
We want a great success because , let us face it , the presidency at the present time needs a success . 
As a British Member it is with a certain sense of sadness - not anger , not political antagonism - that one hears repeated references to the lack of success of this presidency in leadership of the European Union . 
The key to all successful presidencies is leadership . 
To what extent can a Foreign Secretary , whose standing in his own country has fallen to a relatively low point , have any claim to speak on behalf of the European Union ? 
So far , this presidency has done little to combat the Union 's lack of influence , even on our own doorstep . 
We have not achieved very much in Algeria , Israel , the Middle East or , as the President of the Commission referred to , in Turkey . 
This presidency , unfortunately , will go down in history as having been responsible for the worst-managed senior appointment in international terms ever made , that of the Presidency of the European Central Bank . 
This could have been avoided and far-reaching damage could have been avoided if , when the problem was obvious , the need for compromise had been recognized earlier . 
The EMU project as a whole would not have been made to look as ridiculous as was done on 2nd and 3rd May . 
Indeed , the whole political system in the European Union was made to look ridiculous at that time . 
It is important because the World Trade Organization and its negotiations will be starting in early 1999 , as was agreed in Geneva last week . 
It looks at the present time as if the European is awaiting pressure from outside in the World Trade Organization talks to force CAP reform . 
Well , we have been talking about CAP reform for many years and it is time we actually started to make progress so that enlargement can take place . 
Not only do existing policies need to be reviewed but also how decisions in the European Union are going to be taken in the future . 
Those are important issues , ladies and gentlemen , and I hope that the Council can move them forward in Cardiff . 
The third really important aspect , as the President-in-Office of Council has mentioned , is employment . 
We need an inclusive society and that means that we have to tackle some of the current heavy regulation . 
We need flexibility , lower taxation , freer trade and a reduction in social costs . 
President , I hope we can look forward to success at Cardiff . 
Mr President , the Press Services have just drawn my attention to the coverage in the Swedish press of the Members ' Statute . 
I wish to say that , firstly , they are not leaks , because they are entirely inaccurate : they do not reflect the contents of the report . 
Mr President , as you know , the report will go to the Bureau tonight and until it has been to the Bureau it is not an official document of this House . 
Secondly , the report does not mention a salary at all . 
It simply suggests that , in future , an MEP 's salary should be a percentage of a judge at the Court of Justice 's salary but does not mention what that percentage should be ; and , thirdly , it states that the percentage should be set by common accord between this Parliament and the Council , so Parliament would not be able to act unilaterally to set its own salary . 
The reports and the figures quoted in the Swedish media are entirely inaccurate . 
The saddest thing of all is that they are all from the same very small town , which is devastated . 
I wonder if it would not be impertinent to ask if you could perhaps write some kind of letter of condolence . 
Will they take into consideration the contents of your letter which seems to indicate that the majority of people not able to attend 50 % of the votes have some difficulties in either arriving in Strasbourg or departing from Strasbourg ? 
I do think that some consideration should be given to these points . 
Of course , I expect that Members of the groups will discuss these matters within their own groups and reach a final decision on it . 
Suspension is a very serious matter and it is important that Parliament 's views are heard . 
However , it is important to remember that the assent procedure very much ties us in to what happened in Amsterdam . 
If we can not have that , then at least we should be allowed to comment when some situation like this arises . 
In such cases , where serious violations of human rights have taken place , the Commission may want to suspend a country immediately . 
In others a very slow process may be building up where , simply because of what is happening in the country , it may be possible to alleviate the situation before it goes too far . 
For instance , I have just been in the Comoros and was quite horrified by the situation which appears to be building up there . 
One island , Anjouan , has declared independence and , at the same time , it expects to continue to get aid from the European Union . 
We pointed out to them quite clearly that they could not continue to be in Lomé if they had declared their independence . 
It may be that eventually we will have to suspend them . 
That is the sort of situation which we should discuss . 
Human rights and democracy are vital to our continued support for developing nations . 
Quite honestly , good governance is probably even more important . 
I would have thought that Africa was the natural continent to move on to after ASEAN . 
Having seen the problems of ASEAN , many industries want to move out . 
Unless countries are stable , people are simply not going to invest in those nations . 
It is therefore important to work with other African nations to try and keep countries stable so that we do not have to suspend them . 
I hope that , if we can not have the assent procedure , the Commission will at least keep us very closely in contact with any situation arising where we may have to suspend a nation , and that the Committee on Development and Cooperation in particular would get any reports that were prepared . 
Beyond that , the PPE Group will be delighted to support this report when it comes before the House . 
As you say , Commissioner , competition policy is a way of opening up markets . 
We in this House have urged you to apply it to World Cup tickets , which I see have now become a subject of intercontinental trade . 
Could I ask you , Commissioner , what you think about President Chirac 's reported attack on President Santer at the European Council for the way the Commission intervened to make more World Cup tickets available to non-French citizens , and what the Commission will do to defend the powers conferred upon it by the Treaties ; what you think about the current ticketing arrangements , in the light of recent World Cup matches ; and whether you will now take FIFA and the CFO to the European Court of Justice on the basis of the legal opinion that has been obtained by Parliament ? 
Mr President , I welcome this common position and I think it will give road hauliers free access under similar conditions of operation and in particular will open up access to cabotage . 
I congratulate the rapporteur and welcome this common position . 
However , I can not support Amendment No 8 . 
Commissioner Kinnock felt unable to intervene in this regard but it is a breach of free movement and I hope the Commissioner will enter into the spirit of the single market tonight and ensure that it does not happen in future . 
I also hope that the Commissioner will go some way this evening towards expressing some willingness to resolve the situation whether there are huge disparities of tax . 
But I rather agree with the President-in-Office when he called for courage and vision . 
That is the right approach that we require at the present time and not perhaps the other things that he could have mentioned : confrontation and confusion . 
We need to resolve the blockage that we have and the hardening of positions that seem to be adopted on both sides . 
The President-in-Office quite correctly said that it was necessary to understand that the presidency had taken initiatives in calling Mr Netanyahu and Mr Arafat together in London . 
But that was necessary - if we are blunt about it - because of the ineptitude of the President-in-Office when he tried to visit Har Homa and created a very definite hardening of positions and opinions within Israel and within Palestine . 
There is a reference in the resolution which I completely support which asks the Council presidency to urge Member States to refrain from individual initiatives and , instead , to work through appropriate European Union mechanisms . 
Surely , colleagues - and I support completely what Mr Caccavale said - it is not helpful for individual ministers to try their own solutions in a situation like this . 
Let us include also in that area the Egyptians , the Jordanians and , hopefully , even the Iranians and the Iraqis . 
I wish to ask the rapporteur , just for clarification , whether it would not be easier , in the circumstances , to withdraw the amendment and leave the original Commission text . 
We can then re-vote on Recital B in due course . 
Mr President , I rise to draw the attention of the House and yourself to the fact that an interview has been taking place in the public gallery . 
I am not at all sure that conducting television interviews while a vote is taking place is a proper use of the public gallery . 
Could you please take action to prevent this happening ? 
I wish to thank the Minister-in-Office and Mr Camison for recognizing the problems of fraud within the excise duties sector . 
I also recognize that in the short term , computerized records are not an immediate goal but obviously a long-term goal . 
The proper functioning of Europol has to be part of that goal as well in both the short and the long term . 
I thank the President-in-Office for his very full answer . 
I am pleased that the British presidency has curbed the zeal of the Commission , which really wanted to exercise excessive powers , which could have meant restraints on the right to strike and legitimate trade union practice . 
Would the Council not agree with me that we now have a more sensible compromise , and that no doubt there will be successful proposals coming forward from this Parliament when it expresses its opinion ? 
Mr President , I am the other ghost at the feast of the British presidency . 
This ghost wants to say a few things about the presidency . 
Firstly , the general consensus amongst informed opinion in Brussels is that the British presidency has been a bit of a damp squib : it has promised much but achieved little ; and the Cardiff Summit was summed up by the Financial Times as being ` long in words but short on action ' . 
I wish to highlight two things . 
Firstly , I want to reinforce those comments about the way in which your first failure as President of the European Union was to side automatically with Mr Clinton , without even consulting the European Union , on the question of the threat from Baghdad and the threat to bomb Baghdad . 
That was a mistake and caused much consternation in this House . 
Secondly , the fact that we have been bystanders on the question of a single currency is a major error of strategy of your government . 
When will you stand up to the Sun , Mr Blair , and actually say when your government will join the single currency ? 
I have to say that your concern about building a people 's Europe is something we would all support . 
Why , therefore , have you blocked major social programmes , like the extension of the reduction of working time directive , the consultation directive , and why has your government led a considerable weakening of the acquired rights directive , passed overwhelmingly by this House two weeks ago , which seriously threatens many workers across Europe ? 
If you could reassure us on those things , we might believe your concern about a people 's Europe . 
Mr President , this is about the Commission 's power to investigate a breach of the Treaties . 
At Cardiff the Commission was criticized for alleging discrimination against football supporters from outside France in the sale of World Cup tickets . 
On Tuesday evening Commissioner Van Miert confirmed to this House that he would pursue his action against a violation of European Union law , and this amendment seeks to support him . 
Mr President , we are dealing with three excellent reports here . 
Indeed if you look at the explanatory statement you will see that two of them were adopted unanimously and only one person abstained on the Langenhagen report . 
It is an indication of the breadth of support across the committees for the sentiments which the three rapporteurs are presenting . 
They are all on the same theme : the need to look at industrial fishing . 
There is a need to carry out research into industrial fishing and the impact of industrial fishing on the fishing industry . 
The second theme they all put forward is the most important aspect of the fishing industry : is fish primarily for human consumption ? 
This is what we , as European Parliamentarians are doing for our constituents - we are helping to ensure there are sufficient stocks . 
The third theme which runs through the reports is the need for conservation of stocks . 
Mr Kindermann mentions it with the decision of the Council to fix , for the first time in 1998 , a quota for sand eels which , up to that time , was a non-quota stock . 
There was no limit on the quantity of sand eels which could be extracted from the North Sea or elsewhere . 
The Scots alleged that the activities of the Danes were affecting the stocks of cod . 
There was a little bit of a problem there , but we got it ironed out . 
We also must look at the conservation measures . 
So we really have to bring these things together . 
I congratulate the three rapporteurs for doing an excellent job . 
Madam President , I rise under Rule 108 to make a personal statement because of the attack on myself and Mr Coates by the President-in-Office when he replied to the debate yesterday . 
On page 28 of the Rainbow he suggests that we do not have any democratic mandate or legitimacy because we were elected on a Labour ticket and therefore we should not be sitting as Members of the House . 
This is a serious personal attack and under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure I am allowed to reply . 
I am glad to see that the Monday to Friday group are still with us . 
We are here all week and we vote all week , unlike some Members who are only present part-time and by Thursday afternoon are on the move . 
The answer is quite simple . 
I wrote to the President asking him how many Members had been affected as a result of the rule changes . 
He advised me that per part-session since February 120 Members have had their allowances adjusted as a result . 
With that in mind , I have decided to allow them to deal with their own consciences . 
I will continue to support my principles and I have no doubt I will argue for those principles within the Socialist Group . 
I hope this allays the House 's concern . 
Mr President , I refer to page 16 of the Minutes . 
As far as I am aware , the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development agreed to urgency on this and there was a full debate on the Friday morning . 
There were no amendments from the committee and I am not quite sure on what grounds the chairman was asking for referral back when he was representing the committee . 
This matter needs to be looked at either by the Bureau or by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure , the Verification of Credentials and Immunities . 
Mr President , when I was a young boy living in Scotland , at nighttime I used to listen to a children 's programme called ` Jackanory ' ; it told you fairy tales . 
Well , tonight I think I have sat through another episode of it because I have never heard so much disinformation coming across on the question of duty-free . 
Duty-free will still exist for all those travellers outwith the EU . 
If you travel via Brussels airport , as most Members here do , you go into the main lobby in terminal B and you can buy a bottle of spirits and 200 cigarettes . 
You then go down terminal B to get to your gate and there are another two duty-free shops there where you can buy another bottle of spirits and another 200 cigarettes at each one of these shops . 
Therefore , you have three litres of spirits and 600 cigarettes . 
Then you have 4 litres of spirits and 800 cigarettes . 
The only problem you would have in getting them back is not whether customs stop you , it is actually carrying the bloody stuff . 
If we are going to continue to operate properly as a Union , we have to tighten up on the vendor control system . 
Let us drop this whole question of duty-free coming or going . 
Therefore , the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy have put down amendments to the Garosci Report showing ways that we can get around the abuse of the system within airports , ports and airlines . 
It is important that we take these up and implement them . 
If we do not we are allowing fraud to continue within our system and also there is loss of revenue to exchequers in the various Member States . 
Please stick to the issue . 
Mr President , I am fascinated by people negotiating their speaking time across the floor of the House , a very interesting departure from our customary procedure . 
There is no doubt that the Social Charter lays down the guarantee for fundamental rights for workers , in particular the right of association for workers and employers . 
The interesting thing too is that there were one or two little gaps in the Maastricht Social Protocol which led my country to a lot of misrepresentation about what was actually involved in the Social Protocol . 
It did not apply to the right to strike , the right of association and it did not apply to pay or to lock-outs . 
Despite that , the UK Government of that time decided that it could not sign up for it and that was regrettable . 
I believe it is important that the rights of free association collective bargaining are regarded as a basic human right and that any attempt in Europe or anywhere else to violate these rights are a violation of fundamental human rights . 
The development of the social dimension in Europe has contributed to a general trend towards the Europeanization of industrial relations and as my colleague , Mr Schäfer , said there is going to be increasing Europeanization of labour relations and organization . 
The euro is going to give fillip to this and there will be more collective bargaining on a European basis . 
As one example of that , the union of which I am a member , the GMB has reached an agreement with IG BCE , the chemical union in Germany . 
They have actually got collective bargaining right across the board . 
I believe the model that the GMB and IG BCE have developed will be a good model for the future . 
With this and with the development of the social dialogue , which is one of the priorities of the Austrian Presidency , I believe the union movement will go from strength to strength within the European Union . 
Mr President , on behalf of the Green Party I welcome the report by Mrs Oomen-Ruijten . 
As Mrs Ojala said , it had a long history in the committee , an interesting history as well . 
I believe at one point the report was pulled from the committee because it was seen to be too pro-union and too pro-European . 
Just before the British election it was thought it might be a little embarrassing , particularly for our Labour colleagues , to actually have to vote in favour of this since Mr Blair was not known to favour the kind of trade union rights that Mrs Oomen-Ruijten speaks about in her report . 
Indeed he boasts that Britain has the most lightly regulated industry and toughly-regulated trade unions of all the European Union . 
The disappointment for us in Britain , of course , is that the new Trade Union Bill , which is before the British Parliament , does not restore the many rights which had been taken away from trade unions in the many years of Tory rule . 
So I welcome Mrs Oomen-Ruijten 's report and I can only conclude that really she is very old Labour and is welcome to join the independent Labour network , well to the left of new Labour . 
Mr President , the history of a civilized society is the story of a succession of battles against repression and discrimination . 
This report seeks to lay siege to one such current bastion of injustice . 
Our European Union has 15 Member States ; we currently use 16 different electoral systems to choose our Parliament . 
We use 16 because one Member State - my own - uses two systems : a fair one in Northern Ireland , where injustice would lead to armed conflict in a province which has seen far too much violence ; and an unfair system in Great Britain , where the minority has limited itself to passive protest . 
Great Britain is the only country which uses a non-proportional system of voting to elect Members of this House , and that has rightly been condemned : not simply because it is inherently unjust but also because it has skewed the balance of power between the political parties in this House . 
I am the first Liberal Democrat from the United Kingdom ever to be declared elected to this House . 
I participated in three election campaigns - in 1979 , 1984 and 1989 - which saw not a single Liberal Democrat elected despite , on one occasion , one voter in every five having cast their vote for my party . 
The two Liberal Democrats elected from my country in 1994 should , by rights , have 12 colleagues in this House . 
I would like to thank Members of this House , in particular former colleague Karel de Gucht , Gijs de Vries and now Mr Anastassopoulos , for their work to see that such injustice is repaired . 
The United Kingdom Government has introduced a bill in Parliament to right the wrongs that have hitherto persisted . 
But so long as procedures for election to this House are a matter for national governments , we can not guarantee a continuation of the principle of proportionality and that is why this report is so important . 
We must cement for the European citizen the right so wisely identified by the governments at Amsterdam to an electoral system based on common principles . 
I am most grateful to the Commissioner for that decision . 
However , it did not say very much . 
Could the Commissioner please confirm that if a request is made to overrule the 6/12 mile limit beyond 2002 , that will be decided by qualified majority voting in the Council of Ministers ? 
Could she also reassure my fishermen in north Essex and south Suffolk that they will be free to fish in that zone up to the 12 mile limit beyond 2002 , because that was the agreement we had when Britain signed up to a common fisheries policy ? 
In her view , what is the legal status of a letter sent by Jacques Santer , as President of the Commission , to Tony Blair , Prime Minister of the United Kingdom , guaranteeing the 6/12 mile limit would be kept beyond the year 2002 ? 
Does that have legal status and can our fishermen rely on it before the European Court of Justice ? 
Mr President , I agree with everything that Ms McKenna just said , so I will not repeat it . 
Instead I will concentrate on the question of whether this report has any basis in fact . 
The factual evidence on PR suggests that , bearing in mind the spoilt ballot papers that remain in each Member State that has PR , large numbers of voters reject it at every election . 
The only country in the European Union which has a smaller percentage of spoilt ballot papers is the United Kingdom , in its tried and tested first-past-the-post system . 
As far as I can see , after my experience of 14 years in Parliament , PR is fair to one element , and one element alone : the political parties . 
On that I agree with Ms McKenna because it unfortunately produces a load of clones , i.e. , what is acceptable to the leadership shall come here rather than what is acceptable to the electorate . 
Therefore I am in favour of the electorate having the last say as to who they actually send to the European Parliament - or any parliament , for that matter . 
That is why I voted against this report . 
Mr President , unlike Mr Herman I am not an expert on loading animals on to vehicles but I am expert on watching it happening , because I live in the kind of area where millions of animals are constantly having to travel very long distances . 
My area has 90 islands , and one can imagine some of the stress involved in getting the animals from the islands to the mainland , and thence on further long journeys . 
Both Parliament and the Commission have shown concern . 
There is the eight-hour rule and the recommendation mentioned by the last speaker that animals be slaughtered as close as possible to their place of origin . 
I would really like to seize this opportunity to ask the Commissioner whether he feels that there is too much laxity about monitoring . 
A lot of the criticisms from the public relate to cattle coming from outside the European Union into the European Union . 
I wish to know what on earth we can say to satisfy our public critics , because - sadly , perhaps - the fattest file a constituency MP gets is about the welfare of animals . 
I wish to support all the amendments on the ramp and the pigs , because I have watched the horror of trying to get pigs into a lorry . 
The poor driver knows he has only eight hours but an hour is taken up with loading the pigs , so we really should look at the matter of the loading lift . 
The practice of overbooking is openly admitted - they say to passengers like me that all air transport companies do it - and , as has been said , people do not know their rights . 
Could I ask the President-in-Office , whom I very much welcome - she has added a lot of colour to this fairly sombre Chamber - whether she believes that these proposals will come into force during the Austrian presidency ? 
Mr President , could you clarify how we should put supplementary questions ? 
I understand it is no longer by catching your eye or by a show of hands but rather that one has to press the button and that the questions are taken strictly in the order in which they are put . 
Mr President , I am doubly grateful to you this evening , for exercising your discretion in this way . 
Can I extend a very warm welcome to the Austrian President-in-Office , I am delighted to see her here this evening . 
Could I seek clarification on two issues . 
It was generally understood that any ferry travelling through international waters outside the 12-mile limit and any airline travelling in international airspace would continue to benefit from and be able to continue with duty-free sales after 1 July 1999 . 
I understand that , under the British presidency , a meeting of national customs officials overruled that and that will effectively nullify the effect of a change of route for a ferry operating from my constituency . 
This will have very serious commercial and employment ramifications . 
The second point is that the President-in-Office has mentioned compensatory measures in reply to a number of questions this evening . 
I would like to be quite specific : from which part of the European Union budget will these funds be taken ? 
Madam President , I notice from the Minutes that Mr Janssen van Raay has very kindly complimented me on my activities on behalf of the back-benchers in this Chamber . 
I would like to thank him for his kind words but I would also like to stress that my difference of view with the Bureau was not on a legal point but on a democratic point . 
I believe that discipline is a matter for the political groups . 
So my point was different . 
But I would like to thank Mr Janssen van Raay for his kind comments yesterday . 
Mr President , I also wish to congratulate Mr Elchlepp on his report . 
As a member of the Committee on Culture , Youth , Education and the Media , I know his work in the committee , and he is one of the most knowledgeable members in this area , having worked in it before he became an MEP . 
It is quite rare to find rapporteurs who know more than the officials about the programmes concerned . 
We had a long battle in the Culture Committee and in Parliament overall over the funding of Socrates , and we made it very clear that we will not vote in favour of any more members joining on an associate basis unless the Council provides the funding . 
I am glad to say that , after a battle , we got an increase in funding . 
The message which we have to underline here this morning is that to make these programmes work they need funding and , as Mr Elchlepp said , they are vitally important in terms of training , educational and youth exchanges to bind the people of the central and eastern European countries to the people of the Union . 
Therefore , that is why we should emphasize this . 
The exchange programmes which have already begun have started to build a basis for this growth in the Community . 
No European Union worthy of its name can be complete unless we take these countries in , and these programmes are a very good way to go forward . 
Finally , since Commissioner Kinnock is here , I just wish to say that it is nice to see what a splendid job he is doing this morning . 
I might have had some criticisms of him in the past as Labour leader but , after the recent visit of the current leader , I have to say : all is forgiven and please come back , Neil ; if not as leader of the Labour Party then I hope as President of the Commission next time . 
Though having said that , this will probably finish him off if it gets back to Tony . 
Mr President , as the longest-serving Member of this Parliament I remember a time when even before direct elections Commissioners assured us , and through us the citizens of Europe , that the Community institutions had a human face . 
That will not be the case if these budget lines are blocked - it is as simple as that . 
Think of it : the Foundation for Human Rights closed , NGO funding , abuse of children , the supervision of election procedures and the protection of minority languages , a subject dear to the heart of myself and John Hume who founded the budget line . 
I am embarrassed to belong to a state that put this to the Court and caused it to happen . 
It seems to be a government of much the same colour and speaking with two tongues . 
There are over 30 minority languages that are a precious part of our common heritage , with their own literatures . 
We have two in Scotland . 
Blocking this is not going to give this Community a human face . 
Mr President , I thank the President-in-Office for her answer to the question . 
Israel is an island of pluralist democracy in that part of the world and obviously we all wish it well . 
But we can not stand idly by whilst it occupies land which belongs to others illegally in the face of United Nation resolutions calling for the land to be handed back , which was the crux of the agreement you referred to earlier . 
May I draw the Council 's attention to its remarks about its role in certain matters . 
This Chamber is empty because you are the Council , you are the cornerstone of democratic accountability , and it is not good enough to pass it over to the Commission . 
Therefore , I ask you to coordinate a response with the Commission by examining our trade agreements in order to expedite this matter and perhaps assist in resolving this whole tawdry mess we have got ourselves into . 
Mr President , I agree with a lot of what my colleague , Mr Langen , has said tonight , and he has covered a lot of the ground I was going to touch upon . 
As Members will remember , we had to take this item off the agenda in March to allow the Commission and the Council more room to manoeuvre . 
I understand that , as Mr Langen has pointed out , there is a compromise position going to the ECOFIN Council in October . 
It might not have been ` the Full Monty ' that we would ask for in the UK but at least it is something . 
Turning to the report on excise duty which is in front of us , one of the problems that a report like this highlights is that much of the decision-making within the EU is surrounded by secrecy , which , I am sure , a lot of citizens are very worried about . 
At the moment there are about 43 comitology committees dealing with indirect taxation . 
To me , that is 43 too many . 
We have to accept that they are there , but what we have to do is make them far more open and transparent . 
That is why I and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy have submitted a number of amendments . 
I shall begin by going through the amendments . 
The directive states that : ` it should be borne in mind that the finishing line for Community harmonisation of excise duty was crossed only a few months before the entry into force of the single market . ' 
I do not know who wrote that or whether that person had actually been sampling some of the products of excise duty prior to writing it . 
But if you go to places like Dover or Malmö and see the goods that have been brought in from other areas , you realise that there is no harmonisation within the field of excise duty . 
For somebody to write that the finishing line has been crossed is a total falsehood . 
The other amendment I have tabled concerns the Plumb/Delors agreement , which , if my memory serves me right , was six or seven years ago . 
It has never been implemented fully . 
The third amendment by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy concerns the computerised monitoring system . 
We ask for that to be introduced when the computerised monitoring system for Community transit comes into place . 
Again , a technical amendment , which I would have thought very acceptable to both the Commission and business . 
We would also be prepared to accept the fourth amendment by Mr des Places . 
It does not say a lot but in effect it says that the administration procedure should be improved , and nobody really could argue against that . 
We ask the Commission to please let us have more information , so that the public in the EU can see what it is doing . 
Maybe that will dispel some of the mistrust that surrounds us today . 
Madam President , Mrs Günther will be glad to know that the Greens are so advanced that we have a man speaking on this issue . 
In fact , I presented the report by Nel van Dijk in the Women 's Rights Committee when Nel was absent , so it is a subject I know about . 
I think it is a very important area . 
I have just returned from India , from visiting the Dalai Lama in Dharamsala . 
If we look at village life in India and the central role which women play in the community , and the need to target women to act as the motors of development within the village , it should be clear that this is an area the EU needs to highlight more . 
I think Mrs Junker 's report is excellent because it stresses the key issue , namely that we should be using our money to train , develop and promote women within the developing countries and not necessarily spending all the money on training women within the Commission in Brussels . 
That may be important - the sensitisation and feminisation of policies within the Commission and within the rest of the Union - but the key should be to spend money from these budget lines on women 's projects in the developing countries themselves . 
That is an important part of her report and I hope the Commission will respond positively . 
We talked on the Women 's Rights Committee about how we should feminise the policies more : to have effective standing committees with more women on them , to make sure there is better representation of women from the developing countries on ACP delegations , to make sure that we monitor and evaluate all development projects from the EU in terms of the impact on women within the developing countries , and to make sure the reports are fed back , not only to the Commission but to Parliament too , so that we can see that there is a true feminisation of EU development aid . 
If we did this it would be a considerable advance . 
We must put a stop and try to boycott - and encourage everybody else to boycott - any tourist developments within Burma . 
The European Union has a special responsibility because the major investors are in Europe . 
Premier Oil from the UK and Total from France are the major investors in oil . 
If the US Government was rather more active in stopping the drugs trade emanating from Burma than it is compared to South America , that would also be more effective . 
So if we deal with these three things , we might convince the SLORC that it is time to change and to restore democracy to Burma . 
You will remember it was three days into the hearings and was clearly a device to distract the world 's attention from the Starr report and to reinforce Mr Clinton 's image . 
That is why we have put this amendment down . 
We do not like the Sudanese regime , but we certainly do not approve of the American bombing of Sudan - or indeed Afghanistan . 
It is quite clear that there was no evidence at all that this was a weapons factory . 
It was a pharmaceutical plant , as lots of technicians testify , producing drugs to help people in Africa . 
So whilst the resolution rightly condemns the Sudanese regime , we also want to condemn the United States Government . 
We hope we will get support from all Socialists , including new Labour Members . 
They are now suffering the consequences . 
That is what I told the Chinese Consul when he came to see me this week . 
I think the Chinese have now learned a lesson : they are going to have to reafforest , take care of the hydraulic system which coped with the floods for hundreds of years and try to protect the environment instead of raping it , as the Chinese regime has done over the past 40 years . 
Mr President , firstly I should like to compliment Mrs García Arias on an excellent report . 
It is very comprehensive and has a vision about how Member States and the European Union could help the position of single parents , who are one of the most vulnerable groups in our society . 
However , I want to pick up on her reference to the United Kingdom , which , interestingly , she wants to remove from the text . 
I understand the embarrassment of my Labour ex-comrades and can see that they would like this removed . 
The truth is that it is absolutely accurate . 
The UK has cut benefits for single parents as part of its budgetary saving procedures but also because of its ideological commitment to a workfare model . 
That is to say there is an element of compulsion in the UK now : you either accept training , education or work or you may have your benefits cut off or reduced . 
That is moving towards the other alteration that Mrs García Arias made , which is to remove the United States . 
The United States President , Mr Clinton , is in trouble over a little sexual problem , but the real complaint I would have against him is that he is the most reactionary American president when it comes to welfare and single parents . 
He has cut the AFDC programme and limited it to two years . 
This has had a crucial impact on single parents , most of whom are women , and force them into low-paid , slave labour employment , or sometimes into training schemes which are very inadequate . 
So I think you should leave these references in . 
They are both very relevant . 
Finally , this is the sixth report I have spoken on today on behalf of the Green Group . 
Perhaps you could ask you services to check whether this is a record . 
Madam President , a photograph was taken in this House yesterday . 
I do not wish to make an issue of this , but could we have an assurance that the photograph will not be used for any public purpose and , if it is , could the Bureau make certain not only that it does not happen again but also that the Member is punished because he has given an assurance to this House that the photograph was only for personal use . 
Madam President , in the light of that , could we also have an assurance that no private telephone calls made from mobile telephones in this Chamber will be used for any purpose like that either ? 
Madam President , you will notice from yesterday 's Minutes that I spoke six times on behalf of the Green Group on six different reports . 
Madam President , I am a member of the Committee on Women 's Rights and coordinator of the Greens . 
It is my recollection that this alteration was not made at the meeting . 
I would request that it is not removed from the report and that we take the report with the words ` the United Kingdom ' and ` the United States ' in it . 
This is an attempt by my New Labour colleagues to save the British Government embarrassment . 
We should leave the report as it is and vote on it as it is . 
If not , I will request that full tapes of the committee proeedings are heard and I will prove that this amendment was not made at the committee . 
I suggest we leave the report as it is and vote on it as it is . 
Madam President , I suggest the best way to deal with this is to treat it as an oral amendment from the rapporteur . 
If the House accepts the oral amendment it can be voted on in that way . 
If twelve Members object it is not accepted . 
Our main objective has to be to keep as many young people as possible from becoming slaves to drugs . 
This means practical cooperation and the ability to learn from one another . 
The monitoring centre can only work effectively if national information gathering and supplying agencies are properly funded and if statistics are supplied on a common basis . 
Europol can only do a proper job if it is able to analyse , as well as exchange information , on drug trafficking . 
In both cases the aim must be to establish what methods in countering drugs are working and what are not ; what monies are well spent and what are wasted . 
The Dutch and the Swedish have very different drug policies but surely no one should query that both would be in a much stronger position if they had objective information available which shows what parts of their policies are successful and what can be bettered . 
There are many common questions : which youngsters are most at risk from drugs ? 
How best do we get to them ? 
How best do we educate them not to take drugs or rehabilitate them if they are taking drugs ? 
These questions must be answered . 
We are also in need of imaginative new schemes for keeping young people out of trouble and helping addicts back to a normal life . 
This requires , in many cases , both a national and local approach . 
My good friend , Hubert Pirker will no doubt talk about drug-free schools . 
I believe that we should be embarking upon a concerted TV advertising campaign across the whole of the European Community . 
We need to think about a network of youth clubs across the Community to help keep young people out of trouble and to stop that gap between the time they leave school and their parents come home . 
We need to do much more with therapeutic rehabilitation . 
To conclude , the main objective must be to provide a balanced and objective anti-drug policy backed up by sufficient funding to make these worthwhile . 
I hope the Commissioner will agree with what I have said and that we can expect a positive response from her . 
Mr President , the real truth is that the report was sent back to committee because the British Labour Group - the single biggest part of the Socialist Group - was going to vote against it . 
It was under instructions from the British Home Secretary whose son had just been done for drug dealing and it was embarrassing for it to support the report . 
There is a sweet smell of hypocrisy in this Chamber tonight which mingles with the smell of a drug outside - a drug called tobacco which kills half a million Europeans each year . 
This Parliament can not even stop people smoking in areas where they are not meant to smoke , such as right outside this Chamber . 
Instead it tries to water down a sensible policy which Mrs d'Ancona put forward on drugs . 
We need a sensible policy on the decriminalization of cannabis , as they have in Holland , in Australia and in many parts of the world . 
Then we could deal much more effectively with the real problem of hard drugs and the young might take us seriously . 
Mr President , I think the Commissioner recognises the fact , and in the Commission 's proposals it is very clear , that along with common regulation we need common control , and that really ultimately means common penalties . 
Robin Teverson and I have been working very closely together on this issue over the last months . 
It is significant that Parliament is discussing control measures two months running and it shows the importance attached to this issue by the Committee on Fisheries and by Parliament . 
Last month the report went through unanimously . 
That was a very important issue too . 
This report is really putting flesh on the bones of what we discussed last month . 
It is important , when we make regulations , that we make sure that they are applied properly . 
Regulations need to follow through not only the catching industry , as Robin Teverson stated in this report , but right through to the retailers : right through the processors and right through to the retailers . 
That is what we have to try to achieve within the European Union . 
We do not want too much bureaucracy . 
Mr President , my interest in fish goes back a long time - longer than anyone in this Parliament - to 1975 . 
At last , in Mr Teverson 's report , we have this very proposal that was envisaged from the word ` go ' , namely that inspectors will have the right to make observation visits without notice to vessels , sites , documents , to every aspect . 
For that reason I really welcome this report from the Commission and from Mr Teverson . 
We must have a system that is seen to be fair . 
I liked the word in the explanatory statement about trust . 
Fishermen are always suspicious and trust is important . 
The UK has many faults , failure to support decommissioning and many other things , but Spain has faults too . 
For many years some of the fishery inspectors of Spain lived in Madrid . 
We have seen films on television showing under-sized fish on sale in supermarkets in Spain . 
To be fair to Spain , Britain does nothing about it ; it just lets the situation continue . 
There is a proposal to amalgamate fish and agriculture . 
All fishing interests oppose this , the chairmen of the Committee on Fisheries and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development are against it . 
We have taken 10 years to get a common policy . 
How dare anybody suggest that farmers are the best people to decide about this vital industry ! 
Mr President , I do not wish to infringe upon the procedures of the House or the interpreters ' time , but the Commissioner made an important point when she said that she thought Parliament was becoming very federalist . 
I say to her that probably everybody would agree that the Committee on Fisheries of this Parliament is very anxious to make sure that we get to the stage of more regionalisation of the management of the common fisheries policy and the economic zones . 
That is an important point . 
Madam President , the Commission communication is called ` Beyond 1997 ' . 
Well , we are beyond 1997 and the sky has not fallen in . 
I organised a visit of MEPs to Hong Kong at the time of the elections to the new LegCo in May of this year . 
It was the fourth such visit in four years . 
We concluded that the elections were free and fair , that there is no very tangible change in Hong Kong and that by and large the citizens continue to enjoy the freedoms to which they have become accustomed in recent years . 
Hong Kong retains economic autonomy too : its high-rise economy has withstood the pressure of the financial turmoil from Typhoon Thailand . 
The actions of the Hong Kong monetary authority may not have pleased classical economists , but their response bore the hallmark ` made in Hong Kong ' and not ` made in China ' . 
Yet , as this excellent report shows , it is important not to be naive . 
A democratically elected Parliament has been abolished and replaced by a new Legislative Council rigged in favour of Beijing and against the free will of the Hong Kong people . 
A sometimes supine judiciary , and suspicions of self-censorship , give grounds for concern . 
There has been a gradual but consistent repeal of human rights laws and undermining of institutions essential to their protection . 
The new police guidelines on demonstrations , issued a week ago , are just the latest example of this . 
Hong Kong people must speak out against every potential abuse , and we must support them in so doing , not just by giving them visa-free entry to the European Union but by supporting education in democracy in Hong Kong . 
There is an unseemly haste in Europe 's new approach to China . 
Tony Blair , as the Prime Minister of a Member State , is visiting China this week and almost ignoring human rights . 
President Santer must not show the same myopia when he visits Hong Kong for the Commission next month . 
We live in a time replete with political possibility . 
If we are to feel our way towards a new relationship with China , let us welcome China 's signature on Monday of the ICCPR ; but we shall know them also by their actions . 
Our watchword must be vigilance . 
Mr President , in creating or attempting to create an energy policy I totally agree with Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz that we must have this one coordinated legal base and - I would suggest - one Commissioner to deal with it . 
That would make a lot of sense . 
We are told that the result of liberalization would be cheaper fuel . 
However , I am sceptical about this being achieved in my own Member State under the current government . 
Dependence on imports is phenomenal and will be even more so by the year 2020 . 
One speaker mentioned a figure of 70 % dependence for energy as a whole : oil 90 % ; coal 80 % ; gas 40 % . 
Another speaker mentioned the fact that we would have to rely on imports from very unstable countries : this must worry us . 
In relation to renewables , there are many possibilities but very little money is available and very little is being done . 
In the UK the power of the nuclear lobby effectively stopped an excellent programme of hydro-electricity . 
The Hydro-Electricity Board owned lots of land for more programmes but this was ended . 
The nuclear lobby was too strong . 
Then there was a marvellous programme from Professor Salter of Edinburgh University . 
He invented something called Salter 's Duck , a cheap way of producing wave energy . 
My part of the world is entirely suitable for this , as it is for wind energy which has been very little developed - indeed , we could take a leaf out of Denmark 's book with regard to its development of wind energy . 
Salter 's Duck was killed by the nuclear industry which said it would not be effective . 
In the last year the UK Nuclear Inspectorate spent 136 days in Dounreay in my constituency . 
If you work it out you find that each inspector was getting # 5 000 a day . 
They came out with 23 grave criticisms of Dounreay . 
So , do not send your waste to Dounreay under any belief that it is going to be safely disposed of . 
Recently the House of Commons was told after the event that Dounreay had taken in waste from Georgia in the interests of the safety of Europe . 
It turned out that when it got there the license to reprocess had been withdrawn by the Nuclear Inspectorate , which had spent 136 days complaining about the discharges into the sea , into a waste shaft and into the land . 
The House of Commons Trade and Industry Select Committee was critical of the culture of secrecy . 
Going back to Salter 's Duck , Tony Benn was the Secretary of State for Energy and admitted that he had misled the House of Commons that nuclear energy was safe , cheap and non-military . 
It turns out that in June of this year it was admitted that the government had sent 73 kilogrammes of weapons-grade material to Aldermaston for military purposes . 
This secrecy must stop . 
Georgia 
Madam President , on page 58 of the Minutes there is an account of an exchange between the President and certain Members concerning who is currently a member of the British Conservative Group . 
Unfortunately , the President 's remarks have been edited and his full wit and humour have not been reflected in the Minutes . 
Could we have a full record ? 
Could we have an assurance from the Conservative Group as to whether Mr Donnelly and Mr Stevens are currently members of that group or not ? 
I gather that yesterday they came in and out several times . 
For the record , we should know what the current state is 
Mr President , there are more than 100 000 synthetic chemicals in use and only a fraction of these have been tested for endocrine-disrupting affects . 
Some which have been tested have been banned in the West but are still in use in developing countries . 
Why are they a cause for concern ? 
In the Great Lakes some 16 species have been affected . 
We have no solid proof that they are yet affecting humans but there are many indicators such as the decline in sperm counts , and the rise in testicular and breast cancer . 
Liberal Democrats in this House are supporting this report and in particular the call for a cautionary approach , the call for more research and its implications for the budget for the Fifth Framework and the need for international cooperation . 
We congratulate Mrs Jensen on this initiative . 
We believe we have a duty to future generations to act now to make sure these chemicals do not become more widespread . 
In fact the flight went but by that time I was re-routed to Basle and finally got here at 7.30 p.m. instead of 5 p.m. for the opening of the sitting . 
I wonder if your services would drop a note to Air France asking them not to do this again . 
Mr President , you will note of course that I am in the Chamber . 
My point is directed to you because I know the matter is of great concern to you . 
After involving a number of the administration staff , the e-mail finally arrived in my office today . 
I do not think it is a good example of progress in the Union for an e-mail to take almost 5 days to go from Brussels to my constituency office . 
I understand it is the fault of the Groupwise server which Parliament employs for this task . 
As Vice-President Haarder is already looking at these matters , perhaps he could look further into this and advise us if we are receiving value for money and if there have been other complaints of this nature . 
Mr President , I would like to begin by saying that we have heard a lot about the rule of law this afternoon . 
I would hope that General Pinochet , from the luxury of the London clinic , is reflecting on his failure to apply the rule of law to the citizens of Chile in 1973 when he was installed in a coup by the American CIA , with , I have to say , British collaboration . 
Perhaps we should reflect on what happened to President Allende , the legally elected President of Chile , whose palace was strafed and bombed by the Chilean airforce . 
That might give us some pause for thought on the way Pinochet is being treated currently . 
For the thousands of people imprisoned in the football stadium in Santiago who were tortured , beaten and who then disappeared , that is what the rule of law meant under Pinochet , so I do not think we should have too much tender mercy for him at the present time . 
The question is what we do with him now ? 
I have just spoken to Mr Medina who tells me there is a law in Spain which says that you can not go to prison if you are over 80 years of age . 
So I would be a bit worried about sending him to Spain . 
Perhaps we should try to find some more creative radical solutions . 
We could keep him in England for a period , take him to a football stadium every week and subject him to English football hooligans . 
That might make him reflect a little more . 
More seriously , we have to insist that he is brought to justice in the courts either in Britain or in Spain and an appropriate sentence handed out . 
I am a little worried that the British Government may be leant on by the Americans . 
The CIA which installed him originally in the 1970s like to look after their own and there is a suspicion that the Americans are leaning on the British Government to let him slip quietly back to Chile in the night . 
If that happens this Parliament should come back and reflect again on those measures . 
Bring him to justice and throw the book at him ! 
Mr President , regarding the Minutes on my speech yesterday , I want to raise a point . 
I just want to confirm that my prediction was correct . 
Mr President , on page 1 of the Minutes of the Friday of the last part-session , I predicted that the British would let General Pinochet go free . 
Mr President , firstly I congratulate Nana Mouskouri on a very good report . 
She has a great name in music already and she will now have a great name in cultural policy in Europe . 
As President of Friends of Music I have been very supportive and worked with Nana Mouskouri in the committee on this . 
In particular , I want to pay tribute to her for the section on music policy . 
Music is very important in the European Union . 
Some 350 , 000 people are employed in the music industry and there is a turnover over ECU 15 billion per year . 
This report will help to strengthen that in terms of training , education - which is very important - and supporting musical projects on which this Parliament has taken the lead , such as the European Youth Orchestra . 
Recently I went to the European Youth Opera in Baden Baden to see that launched and it is a great success . 
For the first time we are going to fund a European jazz orchestra , the European Youth Jazz Swinging Europe which I also welcome . 
Clearly there needs to be more money as Nana Mouskouri says in her report . 
We should take account of the very good advice from the European Federation for the Arts and Heritage which has just produced a conference report . 
I hope Commissioner Oreja has read that and will respond to the very good suggestions that EFAH gives us as well . 
Mr President , firstly I should like to pay tribute to Mr Skinner who is a perfect messenger of New Labour . 
I can see now why they made him number one in the south-east on the list for re-election next year . 
He defends British truck owners - some of the nastiest , most reactionary right-wing people you could meet - and attacks French lorry drivers who are fighting for fewer hours and better social conditions . 
Earlier tonight Mr John Prescott , Deputy Prime Minister , was speaking in this building to the British Labour members . 
The truth is that this Council Regulation is all about keeping Mr Blair happy who went to the Amsterdam Summit and complained about the French lorry drivers . 
Mr President , I notice that the Commissioner did not talk about Amendments Nos 15 and 16 , the splendid amendments submitted on behalf of the Green Group in my name , calling for freedom of assembly . 
Is this a concern that the Commission does not share any more or is it , like Mr Skinner , more interested in the freedom of goods than the freedom of people ? 
Mr President , I want to welcome the Leonardo II programme , in particular the report introduced by Mrs Waddington this morning which , as usual , is excellent . 
I must say that Mrs Waddington is one of those rare Members who actually writes most of her own reports and drafts her own amendments , unlike many other Members , including myself . 
She is therefore a respected expert in this field . 
It is unfortunate that she is being placed in a position where she may not come back to this House next year . 
New Labour clearly does not respect her as much as Members in this House . 
Incidentally , I was interested to note that the House of Lords may be reversing the system . 
This is particularly so since the great victory of the Red/Greens in Germany has shifted Europe to the left and left Mr Blair as the last reactionary force on the right of Europe . 
Oh , heckling ! 
Mr President , please protect me against these Members who are intervening against me . 
The measures in Leonardo are very important . 
And I hope President Santer will respond to the queries made to him and take seriously the important questions raised over the administration and the budget on Leonardo I and make sure that Leonardo II is a better managed programme . 
Mr President , I wish to join with the others in congratulating the rapporteur . 
I also welcome Commissioner Flynn , who has been unstinting in his efforts to encourage a very close dialogue between the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the Commission in this area . 
Turning to the Hughes report and to the future of the social action programme , I should like to make a few brief comments . 
At a time of unprecedented political change in Europe , we should not only consolidate but also strengthen the social dimension and update it for the next century . 
We face three tremendous challenges in the European Union at the moment : the advent of economic and monetary union , enlargement and the policy to combat large-scale unemployment . 
When we add this to the demographic trends within the European Union , global economic change and technological innovation , we can see that we are facing considerable challenges . 
I agree with Bartho Pronk and Barbara Weiler that it is regrettable the Commission has only really planned for an action programme up to the year 2000 , which is just over 18 months away . 
We need something longer term , particularly as the Amsterdam Treaty - which has not yet been ratified in all the Member States - will have greater powers in the social area than any previous Treaty . 
The social action programme should form the heart of Europe 's social policy agenda . 
Like everyone else , I welcome the Commission 's emphasis on employment creation but this is not only a panacea for the European Union . 
We need to strive to develop policies to help people who are unemployed , excluded or less fortunate . 
Please allow me to declare an interest . 
I went with a group of other Members of this House from different countries and different political groups to Taiwan last week at the invitation of their Ministry of Foreign Affairs to observe their election campaign . 
I led a similar group there in 1995 . 
It is the world 's 14th largest trading nation . 
As a result of being a free and open democracy with a transparent economy they have come well out of the financial turmoil . 
Would you not agree , Commissioner , that Taiwan is a beacon for democracy in the region and that the isolation of Taiwan is increasingly anomalous ? 
Will the Commission support Taiwan 's early entry into the WTO and greater links between the European Union and the Republic of China ? 
And yet we have watched since 1979 , when Mrs Thatcher removed exchange controls in the United Kingdom , an investment drain and a portfolio investment drain from the United Kingdom to other parts of the world : from 6 % to 31 % out of the EEC , which the Commission now admits is the actual figure . 
In any casual glance at the National Association of Pension Funds in my country you would have to search long and hard to find a workers ' representative , and yet there are many representatives from the City of London . 
Compare this with Holland , Germany , Sweden , Belgium and the other countries where cooperation , codecision and consultation are the order of the day . 
Yet the Commission , in its White Paper , made no reference whatsoever to the possible involvement of the contributors . 
I hope and trust that when the Commission brings forward the directive which I understand it is considering , there will be a clear assurance that the contributors towards these huge funds will be involved . 
I believe it is time now for us to move forward in order to give the citizens of Europe an economic democracy . 
I believe , with the Socialists , that democracy is best served by the European social market model . 
Could he give us some assurance that any of these communications or directives will include that which is enshrined , i.e. the European market conditions of co-determination and co-decision ? 
Mr President , yesterday I raised a point regarding a camera stationed outside the Chamber with its light peering in through one of the doors . 
I would ask the House and you , Mr President , as I know you treat this place with some dignity - much more than I do on occasions - to investigate these matters and perhaps advise us how these practices can be stopped . 
Mr President , I think we need to get away from the destructive tribalism of your last comment . 
We voted on 12 amendments with one vote . 
I should like to have your ruling as to whether that counts as 12 roll call votes or not . 
Mr President , my aim is to try and wring the heartstrings of the Commissioners and Members who are here and , hopefully their groups also , to support Amendment No 49 , tabled in the name of my colleague Mr Escolá Hernando and 60 others , with the pledges of nearly 200 Members already , and Amendment No 85 in the name of Mr Miller with the signatures of nearly all the British Labour Members . 
They bring in the concept of remoteness and low population density . 
The Highlands and Islands of Scotland are certainly remote and have a low population density of 8.9 , as probably everybody knows by now . 
The GDP is 76 % of the average according to my information at the moment . 
There are two points I would like to refer to : one was made by one of the government Ministers to me recently , Gus MacDonald , who admits that but for the wages of all the oil rig workers - of whom very few come from my area - we would be well under 75 % , and I think it is a very unfair situation . 
We are the land of whisky , but although the British treasury gets billions from that , we do not get very much in the way of financial benefit . 
We peopled the lands of Canada because we were cleared out in favour of sheep , which were more profitable . 
It would be ironic if , just when the work of the Commission has enabled us to halt , for the first time , the drain of our brightest and best young people away from the Highlands and Islands , it suddenly came to a stop because of the infrastructure . 
There are still single track roads in much of my area , with 50 miles to a petrol pump . 
When you get there you find the petrol is the most expensive in the whole of the EU . 
A hundred miles to a hospital - one could go on indefinitely . 
And the weather - I am sure you all sympathise with that . 
We even had a visit from hurricane Mitch - the only bit of Europe to get it - at 240 kilometres an hour over my area . 
We have sub-Arctic temperatures in the winter . 
There are 90 inhabited islands - longer than England , bigger than Belgium or Denmark - and the costs of that peripherality are enormous . 
I am trying to wring the heartstrings of everyone . 
Make a note now for your coordinators : Amendments Nos 49 and 85 , please . 
Mr President , I would like to thank the Commissioner and the President - in-Office of the Council for their statements . 
I rise today with a certain diffidence because I was hoping , as I am sure many colleagues were hoping , that we would be much further down the track of reaching peace in the Middle East . 
Whilst one welcomes the statements of Yassir Arafat that he has no intention of using violence to achieve his ends , one does see a continuation of violence . 
We must also recognise that there has been a certain courage shown by Yassir Arafat in arresting some of the leaders of Hamas . 
That is to be greatly welcomed by this House and a great step forward . 
I am also glad that the Knesset has approved the Wye Accord and that we can move forward hopefully to see some greater security within that agreement . 
But the final status talks are really the most important we have to face . 
It is of the utmost importance - and I agree with Mr Swoboda - that the beginning of May is going to be a turning point . 
If UDI were the result of the lack of a peace process and a peace agreement in the final status talks , that would be a disaster for everybody involved . 
We have to strive very hard to ensure that does not happen . 
Unfortunately we are still seeing a certain amount of confrontation on both sides . 
I hope we can involve Syria , Jordan , Egypt and Lebanon to make sure that we begin to see a stop to this horrible confrontation . 
That is where we must try to achieve our results . 
Implementation of the existing agreements is vital . 
The resolution which Parliament is going to adopt tomorrow emphasises this . 
We must go back to the Oslo Agreements and hopefully , as we can now see movement as a result of Wye , we can get back to these agreements without delay . 
Fresh impetus should therefore come as a result of the Wye Accord and that is what we must all try and achieve . 
I believe Israel always intends to discuss more with the United States than with the European Union . 
We get the reputation of only looking after the interests of the Palestinians . 
We must try to overcome that perception with the Israeli Government and point out that we are dealing evenly with both sides of this argument and not taking sides at all . 
Mr President , it is not often that somebody from this side of the House can get up and agree totally with what has just been said before by the Greens . 
I welcome very much what Mr Lagendijk has just said because I agree with him practically entirely . 
The first essential to try to resolve the situation is to have proper political and economic stability within the country . 
As a result of 17 August all sorts of financial consequences are really impinging very greatly on people . 
Until 17 August we had also seen huge fraud and a huge incidence of crime . 
That is very much to be regretted and something that has to be stamped out if we are going to get proper aid programmes developed for the people in Russia here and now . 
The real problem is non-payment of pensions , of soldiers , doctors and teachers . 
We could go through a number of categories of people who are just not getting the income to be able to buy the food that may be available within the country itself . 
This is causing huge hardship to great sectors of the population and the lack of purchasing power therefore has a consequence on the food supply . 
The lack of cash for medicines has also to be tackled because the health problems that the people are beginning to face in Russia are severe . 
The government can no longer afford to import food from outside their own country . 
It is really an economic problem . 
The banks are bankrupt . 
The issue is not necessarily food shortage and if we are to get the food distributed properly we have got to find ways at European level of making sure it is actually going to go to the regions that require it . 
It would be wrong for a ` divide and rule ' policy to be undertaken by the Russian Government at the present time , which is what could happen . 
We must address all the questions of food , health , the economy and political stability in one programme , if that is possible . 
Madam President , yesterday I made a point regarding the camera crew in the Chamber . 
Could you advise me if they had authority to film in the manner in which they did ? 
I should like to ask you , as a member of the Bureau , to raise it in the Bureau , because it is very important to treat this House with some kind of dignity . 
I should like to ask you to refer this matter to the Bureau for investigation . 
You have read out what you want us to vote on but can you tell us which page it is on or which article it is , and whether it is in the annex or the original text ? 
I am confused about what we are going to vote on . 
The English text seems to have been transposed and now indicates that the Members have to pay more than the Parliament would contribute . 
I think that is the wrong way round . 
Madam President , could you point out to the new colleague that this is a European Parliament and if he wants to continue with his narrow nationalist views maybe he should have been elected to the Scottish Parliament ? 
I should like to ask the Commissioner where we are with this matter . 
The vast majority of young people who travel across our borders for language courses enjoy a very good experience and their first visit abroad is a very happy one . 
For the unlucky few it can be a nightmare . 
However , there is evidence of infiltration of this sector by organised crime and organised paedophile gangs and , as a parent myself , I am worried about the dangers of this . 
I am very pleased that you are going to tackle it under the new programme on tourism but would the Commission not consider a study of what the extent of this problem might be and how it could be effectively tackled ? 
I welcome the Commissioner 's reply . 
I wonder whether he saw the Money Programme on BBC 2 on Sunday night - I know he is an avid television watcher in his spare time - which indicated that this practice is not confined to ferry companies alone . 
The practice of charging different fares for different flights , depending on which country you start your journey in , is a widespread practice within the European Union airline industry . 
When the euro comes into force on 1 January and prices have to be quoted in euros , will he please undertake to make sure that this practice is not rife throughout the whole transport sector ? 
If it is , and cases are reported to him or if his own department 's research indicates that this is a widespread practice , will he please use the powers available to him under the Treaty ? 
Objectives such as creating more efficient recovery procedures in transit operations and shortening the time taken for discharge are of considerable importance to our industry for cutting down their costs and burdens , especially considering that the procedure can take up to five years to be completed at present . 
Central to these proposals is the need to curb fraudulent practices in the transport procedure . 
We have heard a lot about fraud recently and the problems about fraud against the Community budget . 
It is not helped by a lack of transparency in decision-making , which is why my group supports Amendment No 1 in particular . 
Calculations must be based on the operators ' liability and the risks attached to the goods . 
I welcome the President-in-Office 's reply . 
However , in answer to the previous Member 's reply she herself said that the Council hoped to bring about membership of an undivided island . 
Would that prevent Cyprus from being one of the first wave of new members ? 
This has important implications for the citizens of Cyprus and also for those of our citizens who wish to do business or possibly to live in Cyprus . 
I wonder whether she can confirm that lack of an internal settlement will not be a barrier to Cyprus 's membership in the next wave and that they will keep to the original timetable ? 
It is very comprehensive . 
Madam President , I would like to make a comment on the Minutes concerning the Oostlander report . 
I congratulate the newly elected Member from Scotland on his contribution to the debate on racism and xenophobia . 
However , may I ask whether he would be prepared , along with myself , to condemn those narrow-minded nationalists who continue to utter and perpetrate racist comments within his own party against English people ? 
Madam President , I refer to the presentation we had earlier this week in celebration of the 10th anniversary of the Sakharov prize . 
I felt it was rather inappropriate of Parliament not to have recognised that fact when we had rapporteurs and one or two other distinguished guests here with us . 
So , for the record , I think it is worth restating that it was thanks to a great deal of hard work by Lord Bethell , a personal friend of Sakharov himself , that the prize was instituted , and the rapporteur duly took it through Parliament . 
Madam President , I should like it to be recorded just how good Mrs Banotti 's hair is looking . 
I welcome this report by Mr Evans for a number of reasons . 
Firstly , as an old academic of 25 years ' standing , I like to see lots of money going to my old friends to keep them in employment , just in case I have to rejoin them next year . 
Of course that will not happen , as Mr Evans well knows . 
Secondly , I would like to welcome it because Tempus I was run - Mr McMahon tells me - by a good woman from Ayrshire , Leslie Wilson . 
Clearly the success of the programme is attributable to the fact that it was originated and administered by a Scot . 
As the number one for the Scottish Socialist Party for the forthcoming European elections which will ensure my return next year I welcome that in particular . 
Thirdly , I welcome it because it is from my friend , Mr Evans , who is a tribute to higher education himself . 
I welcome it because it spreads education throughout the European Union and connects it to the incoming states . 
But I have question marks over the amount and scale of the resources required , as Mr Evans does . 
We need more money for this programme and all education programmes to make them a reality , for the new Member States in particular . 
I welcome it because my friend , Mrs Müller , who is the scourge of the Commission , tells me that this is a fairly well run programme and that Mrs Cresson 's dentist does not have any part in it . 
Therefore we should be confident about its administration . 
For all these reasons we should support this programme . 
But like Mr Evans I have to say that the Council is rather insulting when it adopts the common position without even taking account of Parliament 's position . 
I suspect this is a breach of the rules of the interinstitutional agreement . 
It would be nice if we took back our opinion , Mr Evans , and held it for a further six months . 
We do not want to penalise the universities just because the Council has behaved badly but we should certainly communicate our displeasure to them . 
Mr President , clearly new Labour are trying to write me out of the pages of history in the cultural debate . 
Firstly , I would like to congratulate Mrs Leperre-Verrier on another excellent report . 
Actually I suggested she should do this report in the coordinators ' meeting when she was not present because I knew she would do an excellent job . 
I note in particular her concerns about monitoring and it is very important that we keep an eye on all the issues she mentions . 
I note the point she makes about a pre-accession programme which could have been a useful idea . 
I also wish to take this opportunity to note that the question of resources is very important . 
Indeed the Commission agreed ECU 167 million and the amount agreed by the Dutch is a disgrace . 
This shows the importance of underlining resources in meeting these programme needs . 
The question of the strength of the media within Hungary is very important . 
When I was growing up , film societies in Britain recognised that Hungarian cinema was a very important part of European cinema . 
As Mrs Leperre-Verrier has pointed out , that was funded by the old state machine which of course has been dismantled as indeed have many other aspects of the old state machine in Hungary . 
We have to try to assist , replace and revitalise Hungarian cinema , which would be a great contribution to European cinema within the EU . 
I welcome the report and I will , like Mr Evans , finish within my time to show the spirit of Christmas . 
A Happy Christmas to everybody . 
In fact , I am very glad to be speaking on this because it is something very dear to the heart of my Prime Minister Mr Blair . 
When he takes a moment off from bombing Baghdad , he might care to look at this resolution and report . 
Despite being so enthusiastic about the single market , he will find many things which he can not agree with . 
For example , there is the question of the single currency which , quite rightly , the report says is important for the completion of the single market . 
Britain of course is not yet allowed to join by Mr Rupert Murdoch . 
The matter of harmonisation of taxation is currently horrifying the whole of the British media because of the notion that somehow we should share a little sovereignty on the harmonisation of VAT . 
Clearly that is necessary for a single market . 
I want to stress politically the importance of the free movement of workers and the protection of workers within the single market . 
This is not stressed enough in this report . 
The market has two sides and we must protect both . 
Finally , I wish everybody a Merry Christmas and a happy New Year . 
Sport was a fairly late-comer to the scope of the Treaty . 
Would the Commissioner agree that perhaps the Commission should look at further enlarging that scope because , of all games , there is no doubt that football seems to arouse the strongest passions ? 
The volume of traffic and number of passengers travelling through Stansted Airport , which for the most part is very welcome within my constituency of North Essex and South Suffolk , is increasing and obviously passengers want to know that their safety is a paramount consideration . 
Would the Commission consider encouraging Member States to liaise to prevent passengers , who are in the severely intoxicated state to which Mr Evans referred , from travelling . 
They put other passengers ' lives at risk and also the crew . 
Mr President , it gives me great pleasure to welcome all three reports and the high level of support from all political groups within the Committee on Transport and Tourism attained by those reports . 
I should like to concentrate on the Danesin report so eloquently moved this evening by my colleague , Mr Sisó Cruellas , and on the Commission communication on public-private partnerships in trans-European transport networks . 
Trans-European networks have a crucial role to play in achieving and operating the single market and assisting European businesses to speedier access to that market for their goods and services . 
I would like this evening to unreservedly support and encourage partnership between public and private sectors in this field . 
Through you , Mr President , I would like to make a plea to the Commissioner this evening to look closely at the United Kingdom model and in particular to learn from the private finance initiative schemes operating in the United Kingdom . 
While I am sure he will accept that this initiative was the creation of the last Conservative government , it has been so successful that it has been wholeheartedly embraced now by the new Labour government . 
In particular I think we could use the opportunity presented to the House this evening to set conditions in which public-private partnerships can flourish . 
We must ensure that conditions of legal security or , more properly expressed , legal certainty apply . 
The public sector needs to know that the legal framework for public-private partnerships can flourish with private investment in trans-European transport network projects ; that these investments will be secure and will not necessitate at some future date that the public sector or the governments must intervene to bail out the private investment financing or operation of the project . 
In particular , the European Union in my view can benefit from the United Kingdom experience I referred to earlier , where we have built up some very real , concrete expertise in both road-building and the construction of new schools . 
Similarly , through the Danesin report and the Commission communication we must seek clarity in the implementation of competition rules to avoid any distortion of competition within and between the Member States . 
Equally , there should be greater transparency and clarity in the implementation of the European Union rules on public procurement . 
Also , greater access to long-term financing and availability of risk capital will be hugely beneficial . 
I firmly believe that the Danesin report will be a great and positive step along the way , building on the Commission communication to create such public-private sector partnerships . 
I am delighted that three major UK schemes will benefit as priority projects : the Ireland-UK-Benelux road scheme , including access to the east coast ports , the Channel Tunnel rail link and the west coast mainline rail improvements . 
I would make a plea that the A120 road scheme in north Essex will benefit sooner rather than later . 
Madam President , the Agenda 2000 package of reforms provides a major challenge to Europe 's decision-makers and I do not underestimate that in any way . 
The need to achieve an early agreement on the package must be balanced with the importance of ensuring that a fair and a reasonable set of proposals is seen to be adopted . 
The common agricultural policy clearly must be examined and adjusted in an attempt to strike a balance between on the one hand providing proper support to our food production industry , and on the other hand ensuring that good value is achieved for the expenditure of public funds . 
Adequate and transparent systems must of course be in place to ensure that financial controls meet the high standards that we are entitled to expect . 
The diversity of circumstances across the European Union in the agricultural sectors clearly requires due consideration in the new common agricultural policy , which must be tailored to properly fulfil its purpose . 
Aberdeen Angus beef , cereals , oilseed , sheep , poultry , soft fruit and potatoes , to name but a few , are all produced in an industry which is economically crucial to Scotland , with an output of # 2 billion and one in ten of all Scottish jobs being dependent on it , directly or indirectly . 
Our farmers are all aware and accept that common agricultural policy reform is needed , but the nature of the final report proposals should reflect the needs of the industry in Scotland , for example , in the definition of farm unit size . 
Scotland , politically , is in a disadvantaged position at this moment , with our national interests being represented from London . 
I hope that , as the reform package is finalised , the UK Government will , this time , properly articulate the case of Scotland 's agricultural industry and that the Commissioner will take due note of any direct representations received from Scotland . 
Our farmers , as well as our consumers and our taxpayers , are entitled to expect that reforms will bring about a genuine improvement in any new package and that specific changes , once agreed , can be carefully phased in so that our farmers can adjust to further changes in a properly managed way . 
The farmers that I know are hardworking people , many in small family businesses who are aware of , and accept fully , their responsibilities to the consumer , to the environment and to the rural economy . 
Madam President , Commissioner , let us work towards a common agricultural policy which will encourage , not further discourage , their efforts to continue to survive . 
Regrettably , during the whole of Mr Watts ' intervention there was no interpretation because his microphone was not switched on . 
In fact , they have to be done on a one-hour inspection . 
The increased cost to the United Kingdom alone is deemed to be # 40 - # 50 per inspection of each factory . 
I can not believe that it was the Council of Ministers ' and the Commission 's intention to do this . 
There is also a 1972 poultry meat directive which makes EU and UK producers equally uncompetitive . 
I just want an assurance from the Council of Ministers tonight that it is not its intention to put our own poultry producers out of business . 
I thank the President-in-Office for his reply . 
He is quite right to say that the Council has been consistent in its opposition to the regime in Burma . 
I would ask him to consider , during the German presidency , putting this matter either on the informal Foreign Ministers ' meeting or on the Heads of State agenda so that we can look at further measures for tackling this regime . 
I agree that it is very difficult . 
We are getting no cooperation from the SLORC regime in Burma but the European Union must continue to put pressure on that regime and the Council should continue to monitor and look at new ways of applying pressure . 
I welcome Mr Hyland 's question and the Council 's reply on rural depopulation . 
Would the Council accept that agricultural policy is only one method by which we can assist rural areas ? 
In particular , looking at reform of the structural funds , will he bear in mind that we should not just look at per capita income or unemployment but also at levels of population density and depopulation in determining areas that should qualify for Objective 1 ? 
I have in mind here - to be parochial - particularly the Highlands and Islands in my own country . 
On per capita income , it would not qualify but - given its other problems , particularly depopulation - it should in my opinion remain in the Objective 1 zone . 
The allegations are serious : financial irregularities , nepotism , cronyism and even fraud at the heart of the Commission . 
In these circumstances Parliament must get at the truth , ensure mechanisms are put in place to rectify the situation and insist that any individual shown to be guilty of criminal activities is prosecuted . 
The grand gesture of sacking the entire Commission will not achieve these objectives . 
If Parliament and the Commission work together real progress can be made in ` cleaning up ' the Commission . 
If this does not happen the college of Commissioners will cease to have my support . 
Mr President , let me do a rather unusual thing in the European Parliament and respond to the previous four speakers , not a thing that people often do . 
All four of them , in different ways , criticised the US and British bombing of Baghdad last month . 
I have to say to them : if you believe that , why is it not in your joint resolution ? 
We too should be condemning that bombing , as indeed most of the people of the European Union did when it happened last month . 
As one of the speakers pointed out , it was mostly to do with American domestic affairs . 
We in the Greens deplore the bombing . 
As the speakers have said quite rightly , it strengthens Saddam Hussein , it does not weaken him . 
The real policies to weaken Saddam are to back the democratic movements inside Iraq , to lift the sanctions , to help the people restore democracy . 
That would be the quickest way of getting rid of Saddam . 
Some of us have been around for a long time and have opposed Saddam from the start , when Christian Democrat and Socialist governments around the world were selling him arms and strengthening him . 
Let us have a little consistency here in terms of historical perspective , something which Mr von Habsburg is certainly capable of . 
Let us say that we should be maintaining our support for democracy . 
In particular I want to deplore the role of the British Government in this . 
Mr Blair again displayed , despite his warm words about Europe , his lack of commitment . 
He is the man who is going around saying that we need a common European defence policy , but at the first sign of action from the US Mr Blair was there announcing his support for the bombing even before the US announced the bombing was happening . 
If he is serious about a common foreign European defence policy then he has to demonstrate that by action as well as words . 
As for the British Foreign Secretary who was previously a leading supporter of CND in Britain , it is a disgrace that he attaches his name and support to that action as well . 
So let us support the Green amendments and let us mention the role of UNSCOM , which has been exposed as a conduit for the CIA . 
Let us have an investigation into that issue , which needs to be dealt with before UNSCOM can go back to Iraq with any authority . 
Mr President , the European Union stands for democracy , human rights , self-determination , or nothing whatsoever . 
There is a real possibility that the United Nations may decide to pull out of illegally-occupied Western Sahara at the end of this month and at this moment in time Kofi Annan is preparing a report to submit to the Security Council by 22 January . 
I last had the privilege of meeting him in Algeria in November . 
I would like to thank in particular Mr Marín for the work he has done and give thanks for the humanitarian support and for the commitment to logistic support , as we approach a referendum . 
It is Morocco which is holding up a peaceful resolution . 
We in the European Parliament can do even more . 
I expect even more from you , Mr Marín - you know so much about this issue and you have been open to dialogue with Morocco and the Polisario Front . 
Do not let the people of the Western Sahara down . 
Let us make sure that we are fully behind the United Nations and the commitment of Kofi Annan and James Baker and that we can see an end to this conflict . 
The truth is that picture of the family is a declining picture of the family . 
Instead , we have to look for the best practice and best policy to deal with issues which may impact upon the way in which people want to live their lives , bring up children and live together , which varies considerably across the Member States . 
The Swedish model we heard about from Mr Lindqvist with its children 's Ombudsmen is very good . 
The evidence is very clear from all my social research over the years that where single parent families are properly supported in terms of social security and legal rights and child care , they are just as successful as nuclear families . 
We have to encourage and allow that diversity across Europe . 
Mr President , I wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report and being brave enough to highlight such issues as corruption and the lack of pluralism in some States . 
We are all aware that many developing nations are in a serious financial situation because corruption is adding to the debt problem . 
Sadly , in many ways , democracy - or the lack of it - go hand in hand with corruption . 
Having used democracy to gain power , some do not wish to relinquish that power . 
For that reason , we need good governance as well as democracy if we are to combat corruption . 
We can not force nations to abide by these principles but we can use incentives . 
The whole thrust of any new arrangement after 2000 will have a much more political dimension , and we must insist on political pluralism in countries receiving aid programmes . 
It is up to nations themselves to develop this . 
I totally support that but we must strike the right balance . 
There are a growing number of applicant States which are altering their constitutions in such a way that political pluralism will be impossible and opposition parties will never have the chance to come to power . 
We should not tolerate that . 
What incentive is there for responsible nations struggling to stay within the rules if other nations which flout those rules of democracy continue to receive support ? 
Madam President , with three major economic upheavals within a few years in Asia , Russia and now Latin America , there should perhaps be some lessons for us in this experience and we should learn from our mistakes . 
In Scotland , as elsewhere , we are still suffering from the effects of the Asia crisis , with promised investments failing to materialise and with delays in lowering interest rates and the strong exchange rate of sterling continuing to hit our industries and our exports hard . 
While the crisis in Brazil may not be quite so serious it can still have repercussions . 
Greater economic stability in Europe should increase our ability to safeguard the well-being of those of our citizens most directly affected . 
Madam President , Mr Novo has produced a very interesting report . 
It is apposite in a week when we have been talking about control of the finances and the activities of the European Union , that here at the tail end of the session we should be discussing control of one of the most important policies and one of the few common policies we have , namely the common fisheries policy . 
The Commission has produced a five-year plan for the common fisheries policy over the next five years . 
When my party formed the presidency of the Council last year under the chairmanship of Jack Cunningham and Elliot Morley control and supervision of control was made a high priority . 
No doubt Scottish and Irish vessels have been impounded elsewhere . 
All fishermen , irrespective of nationality , are very adept at bending rules to their own advantage and blaming it on the foreigner , blaming it on the Irishman or the Dane or the Spaniard . 
This happens throughout the Union and it is important that the Commission and the Member States get together and establish some common rules and some common responsibilities . 
Member States must face up to their responsibilities and we in Parliament must play our part by ensuring that sufficient resources are voted into inspection and surveillance . 
It is apposite too that Mr Novo is the rapporteur because Portugal has a second-to-none scheme of satellite surveillance which our Committee on Fisheries visited only last year . 
I was very impressed when I saw how they carry out surveillance by satellite and then send spotter planes out . 
They can take photographs of ships and if they are in the wrong area they can be taken to task and the fishermen can be fined in the courts . 
It is a very successful method . 
My own government has introduced a designated port scheme which will stop the landing of illegal fish . 
It is worried about the impact of illegal fish on price in the North of Scotland . 
These are some of the areas which are mentioned in the report . 
It is a very good report . 
The Commission has a produced a reasonable working document and hopefully together , Parliament 's Committee on Fisheries , the Commission and the Council - who must face up to their responsibilities in this - will bring about proper control of the common fisheries policy . 
Madam President , the Commission action plan on monitoring , if its aims come to fruition , is a positive move towards improving implementation of the common fisheries policy . 
It is thus important to stress the need for monitoring to be effective throughout the Community and not just in certain Member States . 
Uniform application of monitoring methods and standards of implementation must persist throughout the European Community and the disparities that exist should be brought to an end . 
To this end I welcome the recent adoption of a regulation seeking to establish a control system applicable to the CFP emphasising the use of Community inspectors in addition to national inspectors . 
The use of new technologies in improving implementation is a step forward but clearly such methods should be financed properly and equally across Member States . 
It is little wonder , for instance , that Scottish fishermen get annoyed when they are prevented from accessing support available to fishermen of other Member States . 
In my view such inequalities undermine the objectives of the CFP . 
I agree strongly with the report where it states that standard penalties for the same offences should be the norm throughout the Community . 
The fair and consistent application of controls is important but , again agreeing with the report , the system of controls must be an integral part of all the measures implementing the CFP . 
There must be a wider approach to fisheries which includes transparency , cooperation and harmonisation of data and administrative documents . 
A fundamental prerequisite for successful implementation is the greater involvement of the fishing industry in the entire process from decision-making to implementation . 
This is something we must strive to achieve . 
The UK 's designated port scheme may have been well-intentioned but it has not been helpful to those ports which have not been designated but which do , in fact , have fish processing activity , which is important to these communities . 
Mr President , I have been here longer than any other Member , and ever since Mrs Díez de Rivera Icaza came we have been close personal friends . 
I admired her in every respect , as a friend , as a politician and as a loyal Member of this Chamber . 
I would like my words to be added to the tributes she has had . 
Madam President , I would also like to congratulate Mrs Jackson on the substantial amount of work she has done on this . 
However , I believe that good legislation should be practicable . 
And I am surprised that the rapporteur , coming as she does from the south-west of England , believes that Amendment No 11 which reduces the time allowed to Member States to postpone attainment of targets from four to two years and Amendment No 17 which reduces the compliance timetable by three years from eight years to five are practically achievable . 
Indeed , Amendment No 17 may lead to the rapid adoption of new means of disposal which will mean less sustainability . 
In the south-west of England we landfill more than 85 % of our waste . 
We have a rapidly growing level of environmental consciousness leading to much composting and much landfill geared specifically to the production of biogas . 
Indeed , I launched a report this morning called ` The Greening of Somerset ' in which we pointed to what Liberal Democrat authorities have done in this direction . 
We are proud of our record . 
We are making great strides but I will vote against Amendments Nos 11 and 18 because I believe they are almost impossible to attain , will demoralise the industry and add very substantially to the costs imposed on waste site operators and on local authorities . 
These two amendments are the sledgehammer approach . 
Would the Commissioner also clarify whether or not she said she would accept Amendment No 11 ? 
It was not clear to me . 
Would he also agree with me that there is a lack of choice of financial intermediaries within the United Kingdom to access venture capital , particularly for small and medium-sized companies ? 
Is there anything the Commissioner or the British authorities can do to stimulate competition in this field ? 
Mr President , I would like to ask a supplementary question . 
I indicated at the beginning of Question Time that I wanted to do so . 
I have sat here patiently and I find it quite extraordinary that you are not calling me . 
Dounreay is in my constituency . 
Mr President , Mr Fitzsimons had his own question . 
It is very common when someone is a minute or so late to allow their question to be taken . 
That is what Mr Smith suggested . 
Instead of that , you called Mr Fitzsimons as a supplementary to Mr Smith . 
My request , which was registered in good time , is being ignored . 
As the longest serving member in this House , I would say to you that there is no point in coming to Question Time if this is how you are going to treat the Member who represents the area in question . 
I am quite disgusted . 
Could I draw your attention to the Rules , in particular to the annex to Rule 7 - conduct of Question Time - and could I respectfully suggest that , as well as showing a red light to Members , you show a red light and a red card to Commissioners at times because this is what is taking up the time . 
The last answer that Commissioner Bjerregaard gave took 3 minutes , 56 seconds . 
Members are cut off at 1 minute while some of the answers from Commissioner van den Broek were very long-winded . 
It might be salutary for the Commissioners to instruct their staff to give briefer and more pungent answers to Members ' questions which in turn would allow more Members to get a chance to raise the concerns of their constituents . 
I was about to raise a very serious incident relating to a power failure at a nuclear power station which , had it taken place , could have had catastrophic implications . 
I would like to draw this to your attention . 
On the regional question , if you take the Highlands and Islands of my own country , Scotland , you will find that it is a very rural area in danger of greater depopulation . 
Thank you very much President-in-Office of the Council for a very full reply . 
I am concerned about tuberculosis and I am glad to know that the Council is making a major proportion of the funding available to that end , because it could be a serious problem . 
Regarding the other aspects of agricultural products that might be going to the Russian people at the present time , I believe that part of the programme is going to allow the food aid that is sent there to be sold on the local market at existing market prices . 
The main problem , however , is that the people do not have the funds to pay for it . 
There is insufficient funding in the economy at the present time , and that is a major problem . 
What assurances can the Council therefore give us that any produce that is sent from the European Union to Russia will in fact find its way to the actual people who need help ? 
Mr President , I am interested in your announcement about the changing of the date of the mini-session . 
I am sure you are aware that visits are arranged for people from many parts of the world in the light of the timing of the mini-session . 
This change will certainly cause great difficulty as far as some of my visitors are concerned . 
Could you give me an explanation , that I can pass on , as to why the mini-session has been changed ? 
I am sure there must be some very clear political reason but I did not quite understand what it was - I did not quite hear what the explanation was . 
Madam President , as always Mrs Aelvoet has produced an excellent report on a very delicate subject . 
However , it is a sad indictment of the world we live in that Article 366a has to be written into the fourth ACP-EU Convention at all . 
Of course it would be good practice if Parliament - and by that I assume the Committee on Development and Cooperation - could be consulted before suspension took place . 
But I have to be honest and say that we live in the real world . 
There will be occasions when the Commission has to act quickly to convey the message to any nation abusing human rights before it has the opportunity to ask Parliament . 
The key to the report is the sentence that the Commission , wherever possible , will inform Parliament in advance of any suspension or indeed resumption of cooperation . 
I believe that is a fair compromise between the Commission and Parliament and therefore support the proposal that Parliament give its assent to the draft Council decision . 
However , there is an interesting situation which will arise after the year 2000 , under the new Lomé Agreement , whatever that may be . 
As the Commission will know , the proposals for any new ACP-EU agreement could be based on regional cooperation and integration , with funding being distributed via the regional organisations rather than through individual nations and national indicative programmes . 
I wonder how Article 366a can operate in such circumstances , as the Commission will have lost the ability to sanction an individual nation within a region . 
It would be unfair to sanction the entire region . 
Perhaps Commissioner Brittan could pass on that particular question to the appropriate Commission service for an answer at a later date . 
As there are a number of difficult situations building up in various African states I hope the Commission will use Article 366a in its widest form . 
Human rights , to me , should include pluralism , good governance , an independent judiciary , a free press , as well as free and fair elections . 
My group will be supporting this report . 
Once again , I congratulate Mrs Aelvoet on the work she has done on behalf of this Parliament . 
Madam President , the work which we have carried out this week could not have been done without the help of interpreters . 
It has come to my knowledge that we have 300 freelance interpreters whom the Commission has not paid properly since October . 
This week the Commission published a document on how it is going to improve things in the administration . 
We have 300 interpreters who have been without proper pay and who are experiencing some financial difficulties . 
Could Commissioner Bangemann take this back to his colleagues , and would President Santer , when he has some time away from meeting farmers , arrange to meet the interpreters who work for us and settle this problem ? 
Madam President , during the last two part-sessions of this Parliament we have sat in this Chamber and voted on hundreds of amendments in various different reports . 
Many of those reports have then been sent back to committee . 
Is it not about time that we looked at the Rules of Procedure and tried to decide that if any report comes forward with a certain number of amendments to it , it goes straight back to committee without wasting the time of this House ? 
We would then have more time to get on with debates , which is what we should be doing as Members of Parliament . 
Madam President , when my group told me that I had 1 1/2 minutes to speak on normalisation and standardisation this morning , I was worried that it was part of a New Labour process to apply standardisation to candidates across Europe . 
But I discovered , to my relief , that it is in fact a very good report by my good friend , Mrs Kestelijn-Sierens , which I commend to the House . 
There is a serious issue which I want to raise on the report and I hope Commissioner Bangemann might respond to it . 
He may remember a constituent of mine , Simon Hossack , who wrote many letters to the Commission and I tabled many questions on his behalf . 
He was an inventor who had produced a very ingenious device which made any electrical apparatus standard across Europe . 
He found that it was impossible for him to market this device because the standards committees were dominated by the big plug manufacturers of Europe who were perfectly happy with the situation where a variety of different plug forms across Europe were allowed to operate because this allowed them to retain their market share . 
By refusing to allow his device the standards committees prevented him from entering the market . 
I know that Commissioner Bangemann as a good free-market deregulator would not approve of this and I hope that he will take account of this in making sure that the standards committees are fully representative of all the people in the Community , including new people who want to enter the market , as well as the existing large monopolies . 
Mr President , I just wanted to point out that in the English version on page 9 , it says binging instead of binding and I know Commissioner Bangemann would not want to be associated with binging . 
Mr President , it is very apt that Commissioner Bangemann is taking this speech at the end of the week . 
He may remember a previous occasion when he and I had an exchange of views about the Commission 's position , after I had spoken to Scottish farmers . 
It is extremely serious indeed coupled with the threat from the Norwegian government dumping salmon within the European Union at prices which threaten the livelihood of many salmon industries . 
In Scotland and Ireland we have about 6 000 people employed in aquaculture . 
It is important that we ensure that the type of chemicals that the salmon industry uses are not harmful to the marine environment . 
As in all fishing policy we have to marry the exploitation of resources with the proper treatment of the environment and conservation of stocks , although the salmon farming world would obviously not want to conserve the stocks . 
I welcome the Commissioner 's statement . 
This week my own government has very generously committed itself to offer GBP 9 million - GBP 3 million a year over a three year period - to assist the salmon farmers . 
They are asking for matching funds and it is going to be administered by Highlands and Islands Enterprise and the industry itself . 
This follows on from discussions which the Scottish office has had with the industry . 
I welcome the fact that the Commission is not going to stand in the way of Member States because the second major condition is that the EU competition policy allow these salmon farmers to benefit from this assistance . 
This is particularly important , given the ownership of many of the salmon farms in Scotland by Norwegian companies . 
Indeed in the Shetland Islands , 50 % of the salmon industry is owned by Norway so it is extremely important that the Commission does not stand in the way and responds , as the Commissioner very generously promised , extremely rapidly to the moves and to any approaches from the Scottish office . 
I will be contacting Callum McDonald and John Sewell immediately after this meeting urging them to put in a quick request to the Commission . 
Madam President , I would like to thank the Commissioner for his helpful statement and for his recognition of the fragility of the salmon market and for the concern he expressed about the consequences of this disease for the hard-pressed fish-farming industry , particularly in Scotland , where it is of vital economic importance to areas such as the Highlands and Islands where there is very little alternative employment . 
Around the coastline some 340 salmon farms are supporting some 6 000 jobs in some of the most rural areas of Europe . 
It is an industry that is well organised and well managed , but it is in crisis due to infectious salmon anaemia . 
ISA has been known to cause very high mortalities in farmed salmon cages , but it is a disease that can not affect human beings and it does not render the affected fish inedible . 
Since this issue was put on Parliament 's agenda , the Secretary of State for Scotland has acted , recognising the employment consequences . 
As Mr McMahon said , the government has promised GBP 9m over three years , but this being on a matched funding basis with the industry , it is now under negotiation . 
It may not be possible for the small farms to meet the matched funding and so what sounds generous may , in fact , for some small enterprises be meaningless . 
Banks have indicated that they will not lend on the security of fish stocks , so unless the larger companies are prepared to act as a financial umbrella , it is difficult to see how the offer will stave off financial ruin for these small firms . 
The big companies might be able to buy up the small ones , but in many cases it is the small companies which have a fine investment record in our rural areas . 
Norway has tacked this problem with a policy of containment rather than slaughter and the question must be asked whether consideration should be given in the European Union to alternative methods of combating the disease . 
It is vital that we take action . 
Scottish salmon farms are standing at a critical juncture , with decisions on buying next year 's smolts now imminent . 
It is essential that urgent consideration be given to what further measures , including compensation , may be possible to assist the small-scale enterprises I have referred to . 
Finally , Commissioner , may I ask you to confirm whether you would be prepared to consider the introduction of a Community-funded eradication programme should the current national proposals fail ? 
Mr President , I would also like to congratulate Mrs Pack on her report . 
Mrs Pack has been a good fighter for Socrates in Parliament for the past five years during which time I have sat with her in the Committee on Culture , Youth , Education and the Media . 
Clearly , we are going to have to go on fighting the Council of Ministers . 
Although we managed to get an increase in the budget , it is clear that the increase is inadequate to meet the demands of the growing numbers of countries that want , quite rightly , to participate in the education programmes under Socrates . 
It is important that they do . 
If we are going to build a greater Europe , not just confined to the current 15 Member States , it is right that we should be expanding the programmes to other countries . 
The evidence is very clear from my knowledge of the programmes as a former lecturer in higher education , that the more we can get young people across Europe meeting and talking to each other , the more they will understand the importance of Europe and the importance of building Europe . 
I hope that Commissioner Cresson will respond positively to the report and will take up the battle which Parliament wants to continue , to expand the programme and expand the budget so that we can have a truly successful Socrates programme . 
Mr President , it is nice to see the Commissioner here with us tonight as this is a debate the European Parliament can be proud of . 
The report we are discussing follows logically on from the Fraga report which we discussed in November . 
With hindsight we can recognise that a number of mistakes were made and the common fisheries policy is highly over-bureaucratised . 
The alternatives are quite clearly set out in the Gallagher report . 
Anybody who really believes in conservation of fish stocks has to be involved in encouraging regionalisation and ensuring that the local fishermen are part of the common fisheries policy and operate it under Community rules . 
Mr President , I rise with mixed emotions today . 
I am happy that Allan was succeeded by his own close friend and election agent , Ian Hudghton , who will be speaking later . 
I am passionate about this subject as my constituency has many fishing-dependent communities , including 90 inhabited islands , some of them going almost up to the Arctic Circle . 
Some of these communities are very fragile and totally dependent on the fishing industry . 
I have shared with them their despairs and their hopes , their tragedies and their disenchantment with this policy . 
Perhaps if fishermen got together and made policy we would not have so many problems . 
There would certainly be more fairness and less bureaucracy than hitherto . 
We have to be able to offer a future to all our fishermen . 
Mr Gallagher has offered a ray of hope . 
Amendment No 4 by Mr Provan is very dangerous , as was an answer he gave in a press conference today . 
Although the regulation comes to an end , the policy does not . 
It was wonderful . 
That is why I think regionalisation is necessary and I have given examples in Amendment No 24 . 
There are many examples . 
I will not read them out but you should all look at Amendment No 24 where you will see positive examples . 
Discard problems , for example , vary from country to country . 
If you think of the square mesh which could solve the problem of conservation in many areas , you will see that we are already on the road to a regionalisation policy . 
I would question Mr Novo 's amendments . 
I support Mr Teverson 's amendments and , obviously , I support my own . 
Mr President , I would like to inform Mrs Ewing that we have withdrawn Amendments Nos 3 , 4 and 5 . 
Mr President , I should like to thank Mr Gallagher and other speakers for their generous tributes to my predecessor , the late Dr Allan Macartney . 
He initially drafted this report to contribute to the current Europe-wide assessment of the achievements and failures of the CFP . 
In September last year Mr Gallagher kindly agreed to take over responsibility for this report and I should like to put on record my appreciation of his efforts in steering it through the committee . 
The original draft was based on the premise that the common fisheries policy is , and from its inception has been , partially regionalised . 
The draft looked at how more local involvement in resource management and conservation measures might best be achieved and called for the existing regionalisation to be consolidated and expanded through the creation of regional management units . 
Like Allan Macartney , I firmly believe that bringing the decision-making process closer to those who are most affected by the CFP and are responsible for its implementation would lead to more respect for the provisions of the CFP and for a more successful policy per se . 
I would therefore like to call for greater involvement of fishermen and the fishing industry as a whole as an essential prerequisite to the success of the CFP . 
Complementary to involving the fishing industry in the decision-making process is the need to heed the concerns of the fishing industry as a whole under the banner of regionalisation . 
The causal link between the fish caught in a given region and the industry it supports within that region can be easily undermined . 
This was brought home to me last week when I met with fish processors based in my constituency . 
They expressed concern that fish caught in that region are not always landed there . 
Therefore , essential jobs in the processing industries in what are clearly fisheries-dependent areas are put at risk . 
Consequently , I should like to stress the importance of Article 12 of the resolution . 
The time has come to consolidate what de facto exists and to expand the principle of regionalisation of the CFP to all Community waters . 
This step is necessary if we are genuinely to involve fishermen in the decisions which affect them and offers the only clear and practical means of recognising the unique variables that exist in the fisheries sector . 
I am in no doubt that regionalisation would further the primary goal of conserving fish stocks through sustainable fishing so vital for the fisheries-dependent communities of Europe . 
At the committee stage Mrs Ewing and I successfully tabled a number of amendments to ensure that the fundamental principles of the CFP such as relative stability are not undermined . 
My group has now tabled amendments which complement the consistent regionalisation of the CFP and ultimately will help to secure a successful future for the policy . 
Regionalisation already exists , albeit in an ad hoc and inconsistent manner . 
These amendments address that anomaly and stress the importance of involving the fishing industry within the Advisory Committee on Fisheries . 
I would urge the House to support these amendments and the report as a whole . 
About a year ago the Commission sent out a questionnaire to all Member States and organisations throughout Europe , to people in the industry , consumers , processors and others . 
The Commission held hearings in various locations throughout Europe . 
It is my belief that the principle of decentralisation and regionalisation , coupled with relative stability , must form the cornerstone of any future reform of the CFP . 
The concept of relative stability was enshrined in the 1983 agreement and strengthened by the extension of the coastal bans to 12 miles . 
Indeed , I support Mr Provan 's amendment to extend the coastal bans further . 
It is important that communities such as North-East Scotland , the Western Isles , Donegal , Cornwall , Galicia and Brittany are protected from the over-exploitation of fish stocks . 
It is important , therefore , that the European Union sets down various principles with regard to exploitation and conservation . 
Any reform , however , must retain the principle of relative stability which will best serve the interests of fishermen and the marine environment alike . 
Mr President , I should like to begin with a confession . 
I am a complete technophobe and clearly this is why my group has chosen me to speak on this complex topic . 
I have read Mr Donnelly 's splendid report and commend him for it . 
Clearly this is an important issue . 
One fundamental question which occurred to me when I read the report is : how did it happen that computer designers and software designers were allowed to make and programme machines in such a way ? 
Everyone knew that the year 2000 was approaching but it did not seem to occur to them to sort out this rather fundamental fault in the process of design . 
Then the question arises : what about the matter of liability for any damage that occurs if these machines crash ? 
Indeed , Parliament is also a little late in the day with its report . 
But I am sure that Commissioner Bangemann will tell us that the Commission is well advanced with its planning . 
Finally , might I suggest that to restore confidence in Europe , Commissioner Kinnock could take to the air and fly on the eve of the year 2000 and that Commissioner Bangemann should resurrect his well-known feats on motorcycle with Mr Barton and travel through the traffic systems of Brussels on the back of Mr Barton 's motorcycle . 
That would reassure the citizens of Europe that the Commission has the situation well in hand . 
Mr President , on Friday of the last part-session I drew attention to the scandalous situation of the part-time interpreters who work for Parliament and have not received proper remuneration . 
They want to see some money . 
The situation has not been very clear since October when I wrote to Commissioner Liikanen to ask him to investigate it . 
It now appears that Commissioner Santer should deal with this matter . 
I understand they are threatening industrial action , which could possibly affect the drawing up of the new Structural Fund regulations . 
I should like to ask the Bureau to speedily resolve this problem , which is causing considerable difficulties for many people without whose good work we could not do our own work . 
Madam President , as the coordinator for the Green Group on the Committee on Women 's Rights , I should like to stress the importance of having men support women in achieving equality in the European Union . 
I , along with my colleague Mr Mann and one or two other men , are active on the Committee on Women 's Rights in support of those objectives . 
I only wish we had the wholehearted support of many of the other men in this Parliament including those who tried to abolish the Committee on Women 's Rights earlier in the year . 
I am glad we have resisted that so far and we must resist it in the future . 
However , we have moved very little towards them . 
He has now given the job to the Leader of the House of Lords and women 's issues have tended to sink without trace . 
By effectively deselecting three of our women colleagues - Sue Waddington , the Labour Spokesman on Women 's Rights , Christine Oddy and Veronica Hardstaff - the Labour Party has made a poor contribution to getting women re-elected to the European Parliament . 
We should look at the record in the Member States if we want to achieve our equality objectives . 
Mr President , one really wonders why the most powerful state in the world has sunk so low into global immorality . 
Again , one wonders why they are so greedy as they seem to have 40 % of the EU bananas and the Caribbean only 9 % . 
They seem to be prepared to write off the Third World . 
I am glad that Commissioner Brittan mentioned the ACP . 
Why is it that we have been in Lomé all these years ? 
We have always had this commitment of access to our markets . 
Why now ? 
It is a most puzzling matter . 
Commissioner Brittan should know this . 
I heard it on Friday . 
Even before the event , orders are being cut down and people are being put out of jobs . 
I also have the shortbread biscuits . 
So I feel that in the north of Scotland , at any rate , any claim of a special relationship will be treated with some considerable derision . 
I thank the Commissioner for a very full answer . 
Could he give me an up-to-date position ? 
I understand from sources in the Scottish industry that there is a major company involved in Norway at the moment . 
Would he be prepared to give the House the name of this major company ? 
Mr President , it gives me great pleasure to welcome the Commission proposals presented to us this evening with the intention of liberalising European railways and opening up the markets to greater competition . 
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate both rapporteurs on the exceptionally hard work they have put in on each report . 
The main proposals contained in the Commission proposals and Mr Sarlis ' and Mr Swoboda 's reports , and the three main developments , are very welcome : greater transparency , separating the provision of the infrastructure from the operation of services on it ; for accounting purposes , taking infrastructure , passenger and freight operations and putting them into separate business units ; extending the current E regime for licensing international operators to all rail sectors , both domestic and international , across the European Union ; making track charging and train path allocation based on principles regarding how the charges should be set and what conditions should apply in the allocation of train paths . 
I welcome these proposals and the developments towards the liberalisation of the rail sector . 
But these are modest steps . 
We think we should have progressed much further to open up the European market for all types of international freight . 
The challenge is to make this a truly single market for European railways . 
More needs to be done , especially on the licensing system , requiring operators to participate in certain common arrangements for networking and resolving the question of marginal cost pricing . 
My question to the President is this : is he aware of how unbelievably complicated the scheme is going to be if the decision goes ahead to abolish duty-free sales from 1 July ? 
It will , in fact , mean that different prices for the same product will be charged depending on which airspace or which territorial waters the flight or the vessel is travelling through . 
What does he propose ? 
I can not believe he means this regime to be in place in the manner intended . 
Surely there must be a temporary delay until such time as proper rules have been brought in ; otherwise it will make complete nonsense of the application of the decision . 
Madam President , unlike Mr Perry , I have no problem whatsoever with people demonstrating for their rights . 
The only thing I would say to the assistants is that it may be worthwhile exposing certain Members who are not paying their assistants the proper wages which they should be entitled to receive . 
We should expose people when they are bringing this Parliament into disrepute . 
And I hope every Member in this House finds that disgraceful . 
If I were the shop steward , as I was in Rosyth dockyard , there would not be an interpreter in any of those booths today , until such time as that matter had been corrected . 
I ask the Bureau to issue us with a clear , categorical statement as to why people who work for us are not being paid properly . 
I would ask the Bureau to issue that statement prior to the part-session in April . 
Madam President , I have been patiently waiting for the end of that vote before interrupting the proceedings of the House . 
I do not think we should allow this Parliament to be devalued by the Rules not being applied . 
I therefore ask you and the Bureau to investigate thoroughly what the ushers in the Gallery are actually supposed to do . 
If there are rules they should be applied properly ; and if people have special permission to take interviews up there , at least the House should be informed . 
Mr President , I refer to the Minutes of the last plenary session in Strasbourg . 
On Thursday I asked if we could have some information regarding the ongoing dispute about the interpreters and the payment of their wages . 
I understand that today we shall be discussing the wages of other personnel but I think we should be looking into the matter of the interpreters . 
Madam Fontaine promised that a note would be circulated explaining the current situation . 
Can you advise me if that note is now on its way ? 
Madam President , the report by the special committee has shown beyond a shadow of a doubt that there is an urgent need for reform within the Commission . 
It has brought to light a culture of complacency towards irregular practices at the very highest level . 
This evidence might not have come to light had this Parliament not demanded urgent action in January . 
The report and its aftermath gives us an historic opportunity to force a seismic change in the relationship between the Commission and Parliament , to tackle the democratic deficit in the European Union and overhaul the system of scrutiny . 
The Commission not only needs to be brought under democratic accountability , I want to see MEPs given tough new powers to tackle mismanagement , fraud and nepotism . 
This Union 's institutions , with Parliament playing a major role , must ensure that a new Commission is put in place soon , charged with the responsibility of ensuring that a complete reassessment of Commission management and structure is initiated and that the new Parliament after June must have its opportunity to judge those who are nominated to the Commission from 2000 onwards . 
Mr President , yesterday morning I left home at 8.10 . 
Having arrived at the airport and boarded the plane , I was told my flight had been cancelled . 
Quite frankly , if Air France can not provide a better service to Strasbourg airport then a lot of British Members are just not going to turn up in Strasbourg . 
Mr President , the main principles underlying the directive on working time are important and are indeed worthy of this Parliament 's support . 
The stated objectives are fairness to all workers in their conditions of employment , as well as recognising issues of health and safety that are able to be addressed by at least some of the Commission 's proposals and some of the rapporteur 's opinions . 
However , measures designed to achieve desirable objectives , I would contend , must be practical and be capable of recognising the special nature of certain sectors and the unique working conditions and practices therein . 
I represent , for example , offshore workers in two very different industries : in fishing and in oil . 
However , I am concerned that , as things stand , its implementation may not have much direct and positive impact on those it is really designed to target . 
It would be an irony if the working time directive was imposed upon fishermen who do not need or want it but fails to benefit oil workers who do . 
I am aware that Mrs Bonino 's officials are exploring possible ways of taking account of the special needs of the fishing industry . 
I certainly hope that a satisfactory solution to that will be found with the support , I hope , of Mr Flynn . 
Here in Parliament we have a chance to show that we are responsive to the real needs of sectors such as offshore workers and to prove that we are not a remote and inflexible bureaucracy . 
I welcome the attempt to provide greater regulation and I regret that agreement could not be found with the social partners on road transport . 
However , I think there is a problem with the Commission proposals to which the rapporteur pays insufficient attention . 
That is that coach and bus drivers are effectively being categorised as road hauliers though they carry out very different tasks , requiring very different working hours . 
This leads to problems in two areas . 
The first is safety . 
These proposals are designed to ensure a high level of social protection for workers as well as a high degree of safety for passengers . 
No one would disagree with that . 
Indeed , in the United Kingdom , only 2.2 % of fatal road accidents involve buses or coaches . 
It seems to me that the extra costs that these proposals will put on small businesses - in particular small coach companies - will lead to reduction of investment in safer and newer vehicles , which will hit the industry and perhaps undermine passenger safety . 
My second point concerns service . 
I am sure that Mr McMahon , like myself , regrets the destruction of the UK railways by the Conservative Governments and the way in which the road industry therefore developed . 
But the fact is that in rural areas , such as the one I represent , bus services are becoming increasingly rare . 
People rely on buses and coaches and the extra costs and lack of flexibility in using existing staff which these proposals would bring will have a knock-on effect which will lead to cutbacks in services . 
In conclusion , I propose that we ought to be looking at classifying road passenger transport with rail transport for the purposes of such regulation . 
This would allow services to be enhanced with no cost in terms of passenger safety . 
Mr President , I also thank the rapporteurs . 
I must declare an interest in this debate as I am a beef and sheep farmer in Scotland . 
As most of my income used to come from exporting live pedigree cattle , I have a financial interest in the lifting of the export ban on beef from the United Kingdom . 
As a farmer I have watched the devastation BSE has caused , not just to British farmers but also to all the ancillary industries , such as transport , auction marts , abattoirs and downstream industries . 
British agriculture is now experiencing a crisis in all sectors . 
While I welcome the report in that it gives us a chance to review the situation , there are a number of points I wish to comment on . 
Firstly , it is a great tragedy that BSE was treated as a British , and not a European , problem from the start . 
As tens of thousands of tonnes of contaminated feed were exported to mainland Europe , there was bound to be a European-wide problem . 
I am delighted the Commission is taking such a tough line on food safety throughout the beef industry in Europe as a whole , as this is the only way to protect public confidence . 
It is a pity that some nation states do not feel as strongly . 
Being closely involved in the industry , I can assure Members that a huge effort has been made to make British beef safe . 
The paperwork and record-keeping is now in place to give complete traceability from birth to the finished cut of meat in the shops . 
It is a huge burden of extra work for farmers , but well worth it to get the market opened up . 
The market and abattoirs are weighed down with inspectors at every level and the cost of inspections is now about 75 % of total costs to ensure that the rules are followed . 
The British ban on meat on the bone is stupid and unnecessary and should be lifted . 
However , I welcome this report . 
I am sure the President-in-Office is correct in saying that a single currency requires the deepening of our economic cooperation . 
However , would he agree with me that the United States is clearly a single market and has a single currency but it has not found it necessary to harmonise taxes ? 
So , to make a success of the euro , it is not necessary to harmonise direct or indirect taxation . 
Mr President , I have a rather mundane point as well . 
Yesterday , during the vote on my report and Mr Chanterie 's report , Mr Collins reported to the House that there was a photographer in the balcony photographing individual Members ' papers and voting lists . 
I would like to know what the outcome of these investigations were , particularly given the amount of lobbying which I received concerning my report . 
I wonder whether representatives of the oil companies or the bus companies are trying to get a squint at what the Socialist voting lists were . 
Could the Bureau let us know the outcome of their investigations into this please ? 
Mr President , like many colleagues who have already spoken , I utterly condemn the murder of Rosemary Nelson . 
Like many Members of this House I also witnessed the scenes of the wreckage of her car and of her family at the funeral . 
I can assure you that we utterly condemn the acts of violence that brought about those scenes and no effort will be spared in bringing the perpetrators of this heinous crime to justice . 
However , I believe there is an effective and credible investigation taking place . 
Mr Port who is in charge of the investigation has been given a total and unlimited remit and the freedom to add resources or change resources as he so desires . 
Mr Port has worked with the UN in Yugoslavia and in Rwanda as an investigation coordinator and Director of Investigations in the UN Tribunal for Rwanda . 
If he so desires he may use independent investigators . 
The FBI Legal Attaché has said that in their professional judgment the best chance of detecting those responsible lies in RUC involvement in the investigation because of its knowledge on the ground and local intelligence . 
Without the involvement of the RUC any investigation would be severely hampered . 
It is necessary for us to cooperate in order to identify and prosecute those responsible for this crime . 
As the ongoing investigation into Mrs Nelson is still under way it would be unhelpful to prejudice that investigation by calling at this stage for any new inquiry . 
I hope colleagues in Parliament today will appreciate the delicate and sensitive nature of this investigation and the fact that the ongoing peace process must not be jeopardised . 
Let the investigation finish its work before looking to additional or further inquiries which at this stage can only complicate matters . 
The signal that has to go out from this Chamber , however , is that no matter what political colour you are you can not get away with these acts of violence . 
It they do not , I recommend all Members to reject Mr Prodi in May as a sign of objection to this situation . 
It is a disgrace and we should say so ! 
However , consumer rights as such , and consumer policy in so far as it affects , for example , food safety and the like , will continue to be the responsibility of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection . 
Mr President , I would like to refer back to the matter of the responsibilities of committees . 
It is very important that Parliament is clear about the different responsibilities of committees . 
Therefore , clarification of responsibilities is vital . 
If there is no provision for this at present , the Committee on the Rules of Procedure , the Verification of Credentials and Immunities should look at it , as Mr Herman has already suggested . 
I urge the House to recommend to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that an overall majority is needed to change the responsibilities of committees . 
I will be voting for the Bennasar Tous report - Daphne - as I believe that violence against women , young persons and children , is an important issue that needs to be addressed . 
However , in order to achieve objectives and to ensure an impact is made , a long-term funding programme is required . 
The European programme draws its inspiration from the ` Zero Tolerance ' campaign that Edinburgh Council ran in my constituency in the mid-1990s . 
The 1997 Daphne programme was heavily oversubscribed with less than 10 % of applications receiving funding . 
Since then the budget has been increased but still falls short of the amount needed . 
Therefore , I consider this report to be a welcome step towards reducing violence against women and children . 
Senior citizens in the 21st century 
Mr President , this is a joint report by my colleague , Mr Schiedermeier , and myself . 
Indeed , on the subject of Italy , which we will be discussing , I remember a few years ago we went to Italy with the Social Affairs Committee . 
So it was quite interesting that we were both approaching our 60th year . 
The elderly - senior citizens , or ` grey panthers ' , as they are called in the United States ; ` grey power ' in the UK - represent a very important part of the Community . 
I see many of the ` golden oldies ' or ` grey oldies ' around me this morning : on my left , Mr Schiedermeier , on my right Mr Falconer . 
They have changed their usual political positions . 
The conference came up with some recommendations which we have put to the Commission . 
We look forward to seeing what will come out of the employment guidelines which the Commission agreed at the conference in Luxembourg and some of the discussions about the European Social Fund and older workers . 
There are tremendous possibilities there . 
The percentage for women is the same : 51 % of women who are seeking work are in the 50-64 age group . 
So what can we do about this , now having stated the problem ? 
So these are some of the measures we are putting forward . 
As this is my swan song as rapporteur for this mandate , I must say I have enjoyed my experience this year . 
Mr President , I would like to talk about junk mail or ` spamming ' . 
Junk mail through the post is an inconvenience but junk mail received electronically or by fax is actually charged to the telephone bill of the recipient . 
That is why it must be legislated for separately . 
I have received 42 pieces of junk e-mail in the last week alone and I can tell you it is a bloody nuisance . 
I have not personally received anything offensive but I know a number of my constituents have and 10 % of unsolicited e-mail is now pornographic . 
There are programmes available through which companies can harvest names from the Web and send out vast amounts of e-mail to companies . 
We have legal cases pursued by Virgin Net in the UK and Bibliotech in the US , taking the fight against spammers to the courts . 
I believe it ill behoves us as legislators to legitimise a practice which allows advertisers to invite themselves to use other people 's telephone bills and to use Internet provider infrastructure to pay for their marketing . 
That is why my group is calling for support for Amendment No 70 to this report . 
Can you advise me as to whether those people who have telematic lenses have the Bureau 's permission to take pictures from the gallery ? 
Have they been granted permission to take these pictures ? 
This point was raised at the last part-session and those people were removed from the gallery , as is only proper and right . 
Mr President , this amendment seeks to protect citizens from unsolicited e-mail which they have to pay for in the form of telephone charges . 
At the end of the debate this morning Commissioner Liikanen told us that the Commission would not accept this amendment even if it is adopted by this Assembly . 
I wish to put on record that many of us in this House find it unacceptable that the Commission refuses to accept , for technical reasons , an amendment which is a clear expression of the political will of Parliament . 
We must not allow advertisers ... 
As you know , during my time here , I have made a great play of raising these points of order . 
For those politicians who are interested , the latest state of play is as follows : Labour 56 , the Nationalists 25 , the Conservatives 9 , the Liberal Democrats 3 and others 3 . 
It looks as though it will be a very interesting situation and could I therefore suggest that we write to Mr Dewar , who is the Secretary of State for Scotland , wishing him well in his new venture . 
Mr President , before moving to the election of a President of this House , I should like to ask you to confirm that Annex I of our Rules of Procedure is being abided by . 
Annex I of our Rules of Procedure , Article 1 , paragraph 2 , states that before a Member may be validly nominated as an office-holder of Parliament , he or she must have duly completed the declaration of financial interests . 
I would ask you to confirm that this has indeed been carried out . 
Mr President , Kosovo is a small economy . 
The European Union could subsidise Kosovo for ever and hardly notice it . 
But surely this is not an acceptable solution . 
However , there is a problem in redeveloping Kosovo 's trade . 
Its biggest trading partner in the past and almost certainly in the future must be its neighbour immediately to the north , Serbia proper . 
Not only that but its trade routes to much of the rest of Europe past through Serbia . 
And yet Serbia is a pariah , embargoed , its infrastructure largely destroyed , its economy shattered . 
Here we have a conundrum : how do we get Kosovo to stand on its own feet unless we can rehabilitate Serbia also ? 
Until he goes , not a penny - well , we heard earlier , hardly a penny . 
But what if Milosevic does not go ? 
Let us hope that he does , but if he does not , have we begun to estimate the cost of restoring Serbia 's infrastructure and productive economy ? 
Remember , Serbia was a sizeable , developed industrial economy , a vital trading partner and transport corridor for Bulgaria , Romania , Turkey , Greece , as well as Kosovo and all the former Yugoslav Republics . 
So my question to the President-in-Office of the Council and to the Commission is this : how far have you thought through the political steps , the economic and financial commitments that are needed to bring about a free and democratic Serbia and reintegrate a free and democratic Serbia into the European economy and body politic ? 
Madam President , it has become a bit of a tradition in this House for Members to stand up and say that their name was not on the attendance list for the previous day . 
My name does not appear on the list for yesterday for some reason or other . 
Perhaps it might be a better system if one could just go up to the front desk somewhere and point out to a member of staff that one 's name was not on the list , rather than having to rise and inform the whole House . 
But we took action because we were not convinced that the European Commission was standing up for the rights of the European citizen . 
As a result of our action , we were assured by Commissioner Van Miert that the Commission would prosecute this to the very end . 
That action , as Mr Perry has pointed out , cost us individually more than EUR 1000 each . 
Members of this House are sick at the fine that has been imposed by the European Commission on the CFO . 
I can well imagine why Commissioner Van Miert did not want to come here personally to make this statement today . 
This is not the first time that the World Cup organisers have rigged the sales of tickets against the ordinary football fan . 
But it is the first time that they have trumpeted their tournament as the first billion-dollar World Cup . 
They have made millions out of discriminatory sales arrangements . 
If the Commission had pursued this abuse of Article 82 as rigorously as it pursues abuses in other areas of industry then this fine would have been not # 600 but # 6m or more . 
The Commissioner tells us that the interests of consumers were harmed but that this had no serious effect on the market . 
I suggest to the Commissioner that it has a very serious effect on the European Union 's reputation . 
He tells us that there was nothing to guide the CFO . 
What about the fine that the Commission imposed on the Italian organisers of the World Cup in 1990 , a fine which was , in fact , larger than the fine that is imposed on the CFO this year ? 
What about the exchange of correspondence between the CFO and the European Commission which started the previous July ? 
I support the European Union in developing its role to protect those citizens . 
To me , this fine sends to the European citizen the message that Europe is on the side of big business and not on the side of the ordinary man or woman in the street . 
In my view , this is a sad-and-sorry ending to a sad-and-sorry Commission . 
I hope that our new Commissioners , when they have been approved in September , will have rather more backbone in taking up this kind of case on behalf of the people of Europe . 
May I also say to Madam President-in-Office that subsidiarity must be as vitally respected at Tampere as in all aspects of the work of this Union . 
I represent an electoral region which has had an independent legal system with a distinct tradition in justice and home affairs for over 500 years . 
It is not a Member State itself , but we in Scotland now have again a parliament which legislates for our justice and home affairs . 
It is vital that this and other such regions are fully and properly borne in mind when policies are developed dealing with these matters . 
Finally , I agree very much indeed with what Madam President-in-Office said about making rights effectual . 
It is no use having charters of rights and having rights enshrined in treaties if these are ignored in practice . 
I hope that the Council and the Commission will take the strongest measures to ensure in this and other cases that we do not have rights and then see them rendered ineffectual by state action . 
Mr President , in the vote I registered an abstention . 
I recognise the quality and ability of many of the Commissioners and acknowledge that the majority in this Parliament has , on balance , decided to confirm the whole Commission . 
These have persisted . 
I can not , in all conscience , justify to my constituents in Scotland the casting of an affirmative vote today . 
On the other hand there is not yet compelling evidence to justify the total rejection of the Commission . 
In these circumstances a positive abstention seemed to be the right vote . 
The Commitments given by Mr Prodi to change the culture in the Commission to ensure more transparency and better financial management are very welcome . 
Mr President , like other speakers in this debate I wish to draw the attention of this House to the appalling double standards and hypocrisy displayed throughout the tragic crisis now unfolding in East Timor by the British Foreign Secretary , Robin Cook . 
When Mr Cook was appointed Foreign Secretary he launched an ethical foreign policy containing amongst other things a commitment to a stringent code of conduct on arms export controls . 
Nevertheless he has allowed Hawk ground attack aircraft to be exported to the Indonesian military in breach of his own ethical foreign policy and arms export guidelines . 
Because the contract had been signed by the previous Conservative Government , Mr Cook claimed it could not be broken . 
He even gave repeated assurances that contractual clauses ensured that jets would not be used for aggressive purposes against the people of East Timor . 
Now , in the face of spiralling atrocities in that country and hard evidence that the aircraft in question have been used in attacks on the East Timorese , Mr Cook has performed an amazing U-turn : last Saturday he finally cancelled the contract and introduced a temporary arms ban . 
We will never know how many East Timorese died as a result of his refusal to cancel this contract at an earlier stage . 
This House has a right to an explanation from Mr Cook of how something which the UK Government insisted could not happen suddenly became possible . 
We should also ask Mr Cook why British taxpayers ' money was used to fund this scandalous episode and indeed , why the UK Ministry of Defence specifically intervened to ensure an invitation was extended to the Indonesian military to attend a major arms fair in Britain next week . 
Again , only after international pressure has Mr Cook been forced to withdraw this invitation . 
We should insist that Mr Cook is brought before this House to provide us with an explanation on his extraordinary collaboration with the oppressive Indonesian regime . 
Mr President , it is a great pleasure to speak on Palestine . 
It is extremely important and it is a subject in which I have been very interested for many years . 
I should like to raise a few points . 
One is that we are helping 3.5 million refugees . 
I accept that these are people in refugee camps now and I hope that the European Union will play a very positive role in helping them to rehabilitate once they come across from neighbouring countries into Palestine for resettlement . 
I hope the European Commission will take the initiative , with the close cooperation of Parliament , in being more of an active player in the Middle East and not take a back seat and let the Americans lead . 
When we look at the aid we are giving , EUR 40 million , that is not a lot of money . 
I accept it is quite a large part of the EUR 120 million that are being given and 85 % of our budget of about EUR 40 million per annum is for education , which I consider the right way forward . 
We are helping to educate half a million children . 
I hope that this proposal will be acted upon quickly because as Mrs Morgantini pointed out there is urgency , teachers are losing their jobs or not being employed and education and medical help is essential . 
I hope that the Commission will do its best to speed this on . 
Mrs Morgantini has really covered this subject extensively . 
I do not want to waste Parliament ' s time and I thank the President for giving me the opportunity to speak on this subject . 
Mr President , I do not have to tell you what a beautiful and vulnerable coastline the west of Scotland presents . 
Certainly it is one which is particularly vulnerable and this week we have heard yet further alarming reports of leakages from Sellafield which will damage the coast of Galloway , the Firth of Clyde , Argyle and beyond . 
It is vital that action of this kind be taken as quickly as possible and I am delighted to have had the opportunity of voting for it today . 
Mr President , can I associate myself with Mr Swoboda ' s remarks . 
I was in Moscow last November with a group from this Parliament which had gone there to evaluate the need for humanitarian aid , and it became obvious that the country is just not able to put itself in order . 
We as a European Union really do need to take some political initiative to try to help the Russians get their economy back on track . 
The Central and Eastern European countries that were former members of the Soviet bloc have been able to pull themselves together , and improve their economies and their peoples ' standards of living . 
This was because we put ownership and the laws of property ownership high on the agenda . 
That is not the case in Russia and the difficulty there , I believe , arises because no one has the responsibility to own anything and therefore take control of their own economy . 
I hope we can therefore take some sort of political initiative to try to make sure that country puts its basic law into proper order . 
Mr President , the ageing dictatorial dinosaurs which stalk across the African sub-continent are dying and a new dawn of democracy is appearing . 
But in one country , a dinosaur has presided over a regime responsible for widespread human rights violations for 32 years . 
We need to use the office of the EU facilitator to sort that out , to get an agreement between Eyadema and the opposition parties to take Togo to democracy . 
We call on the Council which will be meeting to make sure that the office for the facilitators is given the resources that it needs in order to be able to do that job . 
Cooperation between the European Union and Togo should only be resumed when Togo fully complies with the provisions of Article 5 of the Lomé Convention . 
In the meantime we should be supporting independent media and civil society groups to bring what help we can to the population . 
Madam President , it is the same point . 
If you speak very close to your microphone most people can not hear what you are saying . 
It is an indication of what is wrong with the system . 
It is exactly the same in the committee rooms . 
It is the distance of the speaker from the microphone . 
We need to hear what the interpreters are saying . 
I believe Mr Seppänen is absolutely right . 
Mr President , I am one of those who would very much like to thank you , Mr Priestley , the ancillary and administrative staff . 
When problems arise they get solved . 
Like other colleagues I should like to say that the energy efficiency issue is terribly important and ought to be concentrated on . 
I should like to mention just two minor areas that need improvement . 
Even though I have something like six doctorates from five countries - most of them honorary , I have to admit - the instructions on how to use the telephones and how to set up the voice mail are nearly unintelligible . 
Office supplies - staplers , paper clips and little things like that - are very hard to come by . 
Madam President , I have a request for information about a matter of order . 
I am not sure if one is entitled to make an explanation of vote at this stage in this debate , but if so , I would like to say that I think , from the point of view of people in Scotland , it is a great pity that we will debate food safety tomorrow , without including a case where a Member State is defying the Community judgement on food safety . 
That is why I voted for that motion . 
Mr President , food safety issues have quite rightly dominated much of our thinking and that of Member States in recent years . 
I welcome today ' s statement and debate as a recognition of the continuing need for action . 
It is right that public bodies and politicians , whether in local authorities or governments , should play a part in regulating food production and processing . 
The European Commission and we in the Parliament , too , should do all in our power to ensure that consumers Europe-wide can have confidence in their food purchases . 
The BSE problem is one case where , at a European level , stringent conditions were put in place in relation to the export of UK beef . 
These conditions were met , resulting in the recent lifting of the ban which has had such a major effect on agriculture and related industries in that country . 
This came as a long-awaited sign , bringing some relief to our hard-pressed farmers . 
Can it be acceptable then , given that the European Union body responsible judged it the right time to lift the ban , that individual states , without producing and publishing a clear justification in terms of food safety , should maintain the beef ban This decision by the French government last week comes as a particularly bitter further blow to Scotland ' s beef farmers , whose herds are predominantly grass-fed and did not have a BSE problem in the first place . 
I would like firstly to welcome the Commissioner ' s response but also to push him a little . 
What he said in relation to beef is that free trade is important , but that the health of the consumers should come first and free trade second . 
Will he also reassure us that he will take that attitude in Seattle When we look at the WTO negotiations it often appears that the health of consumers and others is subordinated to the free-trade aspect . 
Both are important , but health is a key issue . 
If we keep putting hormones in beef we will get a lot more muscle in our beef as well . 
That is a role that the EU could usefully play - of bringing the Indians , Pakistanis or Bangladeshis , etc. together in that sub-continent to discuss their common problems and , in a sense , act as an external honest broker in dealings between the countries in that sub-region . 
Mr President , in a historical context the European Union is a baby . 
In its infancy it questioned the eligibility of British membership and rejected its application to join . 
At that time many thought Greece or Spain - I suppose these days all that is forgotten - would never qualify for membership . 
Over the last ten years we have witnessed huge changes . 
Membership has expanded to 15 Member States , Parliament is beginning to acquire political power and will , I hope , cease to be a mere talking-shop . 
Turkey ' s application has to be judged on the basis of the following criteria : Turkey ' s strategic geographic and economic position and how this impacts on Europe ; Turkey ' s crucial role as a member of NATO and how this membership could be sustained if the door is permanently shut in its face ; Turkey , which as a future responsible member of the EU could be the fire extinguisher for the fires of discontent that burn in the Middle East and beyond . 
I appreciate the fears of those who worry about Turkey ' s Islamic population . 
The reality is that there are large numbers of Turks living in Germany and France , large numbers of Muslims - including Turkish Cypriots - who live in Britain . 
The populations of Kosovo and Albania are predominantly Muslim . 
The religious complexion of Turkey is a matter of historical accident , like Spain under the Moors for a few hundred years . 
Turkey ' s culture is distinctly European and its religious complexion should not devalue its European identity . 
Let us look ahead over the next 10 , 15 or 25 years and examine what is in Europe ' s best interest : what will contribute to the prosperity and peace of this family of nations that we call the Europe of today . 
Let us not be hypocritical , and let us ask ourselves what is the intellectual basis for excluding Turkey . 
Young Europeans , socially mobile and far less religious than us , expect us to develop a Europe of opportunities for work and prosperity that we can all enjoy . 
Turkey can not join the EU today ; but geography , culture , history , security and common sense ... 
The very disappointing turnout in this year ' s European elections provided dramatic proof , if proof was needed , that this Parliament ' s visibility and relevance to the people of Europe need to be enhanced . 
I think two proposals relating to the calendar gave us an opportunity to improve both our working methods and our contact with the citizens . 
The proposal to shorten Strasbourg sessions to four days would have meant that MEPs could have been back in their constituencies for longer periods meeting groups , individuals and organisations and getting across the message about what we do here in Strasbourg and Brussels . 
The proposal to have a mini-mini-session in Brussels on a Wednesday - when , of course , MEPs are already in Brussels for Group and committee meetings - would have allowed the President of the Commission to come to Parliament and report on the outcome of the Commission ' s weekly meeting , and thus demonstrate to the citizens that the Commission is responsible to Parliament and raise our profile by getting major Commission initiatives announced inside this institution . 
I regret that both proposals were rejected today , but I am sure colleagues will come back with future proposals at a later date . 
It threatens future economic development in Africa as it kills adults in the prime of their working lives , thus decimating workforces . 
AIDS fractures and impoverishes families and orphans millions . 
In other words , AIDS brings untold misery to countless Africans . 
In order to tackle this scourge , health education and welfare resources must be mobilised on a massive scale . 
This assistance should be channelled though local agencies spreading knowledge of the disease , its causes and its effects , and providing preventive and palliative healthcare . 
- I welcome the compromise motion on Turkey as striking the correct balance between the need to affirm Turkey as eligible for EU membership and the need for Turkey to undertake a number of economic and political reforms before their application becomes ` live ' . 
There is no question that Turkey has the right to join the EU , nor in my mind that one day it will . 
However , it must build on its recent reforms and ensure that full democracy , respect for human rights and the rights of minorities become the norm in Turkey . 
Turkey must continue to improve its relations with Greece and work actively to find a solution to the Cyprus issue . 
The Turkish Government ' s efforts to find a political solution to the Kurdish question are encouraging . 
The commuting of the death sentence on Mr Öçalan and the formal abolition of the death penalty in Turkey would be welcome further steps . 
The Council could of course indicate what its response would be if the Commission were to bring forward such a proposal for financing . 
However , my question to the Council is : does the Council not believe that the European Institutions themselves have a duty to lead by example on the issue of equality , and is it happy about the existing staff quality of the Institutions ? 
Even though Mr Prodi has initiated some reforms , it seems to me that women are still very much under-represented in the hierarchy of both the Council , the Commission and , to be honest , this institution as well . 
Madam President , I should like to speak on behalf of my colleague , Miss Lynne , who sadly has injured her shoulder , having fallen down the stairs here while showing people how dangerous a particular set of stairs was ! 
Miss Lynne would have asked that we be allowed to close the debate on the question of British beef with motions for a resolution from the various political groups . 
I would like to make that proposal that the political groups be invited to submit motions for a resolution to close the debate on British beef . 
Madam President , my apologies for not being clearer the first time I spoke . 
Our initial demand was to bring the debate forward to Thursday . 
We welcome this but we would also like to ask that Members have the possibility of putting down motions for a resolution to close the debate . 
But in the new world of electronic commerce , there is no centre : the periphery is as central as the centre . 
This will be a great thing for many of us in this House and certainly for Mr Miller and myself who represent Scotland here . 
Indeed it is such a very welcome development that we in the European Union should be setting out to create an adequate framework for this form of commerce - an adequate framework for mutual trust among citizens of the different countries because , after all , if anything acknowledges no frontier , it is the Internet . 
My own group would have felt happier if there had been somewhat stronger protections for privacy as well as somewhat stronger data protection elements . 
It is also very important , as has been said by others , that there will be a possibility for further development internationally because the frontiers of the EU are artificial frontiers when it comes to this matter . 
I want to be sure that when developing international agreements , we do not find things arise which are oppressive either to citizens or to consumers . 
Not all of us feel that the balance has always been well struck in the World Trade Organisation , for example , between environmental , consumer and worker protection and the liberalisation of trade . 
Let us not see that happen again in this domain . 
Our negotiators must fight hard for a fair and just framework as well as a free market . 
Mr President , I congratulate Mr Harbour on his first report . 
He states quite clearly that diesel spillage is a danger to users of two-wheeled vehicles . 
So we have to look at why there is more spillage of diesel around motorways . 
It is because of missing caps or ill-fitting caps on fuel tanks . 
As these commercial vehicles go round roundabouts the fuel tends to spill out and motorbikes following closely behind skid on the greasy surface that diesel leaves . 
Therefore , the second amendment tackles this whole question of the ill-fitting caps and , sometimes , no caps at all . 
I congratulate him on that . 
I should also like to point out that motorcycling is enjoying a boom at the moment . 
I look around this room and see that most of us are probably approaching middle age . 
I do not know , but anyway motorcycling is enjoying a revival . 
I welcome that , and if there is increasing usage of motorcycles on the roads , then we have to make those roads safer . 
Therefore my group will fully support Mr Harbour ' s report . 
Mr President , can I again thank all my colleagues in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market for their assistance in producing this report . 
The first reading of this report went through Parliament earlier this year - in April I believe - and that report had two aims similar to the aims of this report . 
The second point was the safety of cableway installations . 
Earlier this evening I spoke about safety - the safety of two-wheeled vehicles on the road . 
We in the European Union should be concerned about all aspects of safety in all modes of transport , not just two-wheeled vehicles , four-wheeled vehicles , trains , planes , boats or whatever , but also in relation to cable cars and cable installations . 
We have to be concerned about safety . 
That brings me on to the amendments which have been tabled here by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market . 
Amendments Nos 1 , 2 , 3 and 5 clarify the position with regard to all persons utilising cableways . 
Amendment No 4 is basically a tidying-up operation , as the earlier paragraph was out of date . 
Amendment No 6 takes out the question of mining which is the subject of separate legislation . 
Amendments Nos 7 , 8 , 9 and 10 simplify the safeguard clause . 
If we had agreed fully with the Commission text we would have had three unwieldy safeguard paragraphs . 
Amendment No 12 is again a tidying-up exercise . 
Madam President , I should like to congratulate the Council and the Commission on the progress made at Tampere in so many areas and I would like to associate myself with the remarks made earlier by my Liberal Democrat colleague Baroness Ludford . 
In the short time I have available I would like to touch on two issues . 
The first is the position of non-nationals , the many millions of our fellow human beings not citizens of the Union but either legally resident here or being offered asylum . 
I welcome some of the progress that was made at Tampere : for instance , on giving them comparable rights and on the fight against racism and xenophobia . 
If we are talking about creating an area of freedom , security and justice , however , we must recognise that these are the people to whom justice is most regularly denied . 
They are still too often associated with criminals . 
Racist urban youths are a social embarrassment but racist policemen are a major social hazard . 
I welcome legal aid and greater information to citizens on legal systems and I recognise that progress can be made on mutual recognition of judicial decisions . 
Nonetheless , we need common high standards of judicial competence and I hope that we will see more work done in this area . 
We need protection of victims and the right to compensation ; but we also need a recognition of the rights of defendants if we are to live in a decent society . 
The second point I would like to touch on is the involvement of citizens . 
The President-in-Office made much of the increased efficiency and transparency that Tampere has brought . 
He talked about this being key if the Union is to win the trust of its citizens . 
As chairman of the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs , I would like to suggest to the President-in-Office that more recognition be given to the role of this Parliament in dealing with citizens . 
The European Parliament could have been invited at a working level to many more of the debates surrounding the Tampere summit . 
The presidency could have sent a representative to our committee to come and talk about the results of that summit . 
Does the presidency recognise the legitimacy of the European Parliament or is it somehow running scared of our participation ? 
I have a message for the presidency : relax - come and discuss with us . 
I hope we will be able to prove to you through our work in the body that will draw up the Charter of Fundamental Human and Social Rights that the presidency and Parliament can work very well together . 
I hope that , as we proceed in this area where so often Parliament must work directly with the Council , we will see much more effective cooperation between us . 
I hope we will move from the somewhat stilted process of government by summit to more government at working level . 
Mr President , there is one dog that has not yet barked in this debate , and I should just like to draw attention to the radical failure of the Dehaene report to deal adequately - mentioning it only in passing - with the regional aspect of government in Europe . 
Subsidiarity here seems to be a concept which gets lip service but not real action and it certainly needs redefining in the Treaty . 
The autonomous regions and nations internal to the Union states of the European Union , like Spain or the United Kingdom or Belgium , must obtain effective standing in our system . 
The Committee of the Regions as at present constituted is both toothless and not in any sense fairly representative . 
Are Members here aware that Luxembourg has six members in the Committee of the Regions and Scotland four ? 
I am not familiar with the differences between east and west Luxembourg but I know a little about the internal differences of Scotland , and the principle of representation as it exists is absurd . 
A committee that was supposed to enable regions and internal nations to counterbalance the states is dominated by the state system . 
New members will arrive here with enlargement in this Parliament , many of them representing former member nations of union states . 
Think of Slovenia , think of Estonia . 
They are small states but their representation will automatically exceed that of the Basque country , that of Flanders , that of Scotland , that of Wales . 
The principles of representation in Europe , as applied to its nations and regions need to be re-examined , and I am very sad that the Dehaene report has said practically nothing about this . 
There is no doubt that electronic commerce is going to be one of the boom areas of the future , providing consumers feel that they can use the system with confidence . 
Two problems are presently holding back the development of e-commerce : the difficulty in verifying the identity of users and consumers and the uncertainty surrounding the extent to which on-line transactions are legally binding . 
I welcome the fact that the proposed Directive gives legal force to digital signatures ( provided they are authenticated ) and so gives them the same legal force as documents signed in ink . 
Increased security for e-commerce in the EU should boost consumer confidence and help the citizens of the EU to benefit from this area of activity with greater peace of mind and security . 
Mr President , last week in Greenock , on the western seaboard of this Union , three brave women Angela Zetter , Ellen Moxley and Bodil Ulla Roder stood trial on a charge of criminal damage . 
They had acted to impede the Trident missile system based on the Clyde . 
Their aim was to prevent what they consider a grave crime under international law . 
The judge , Sheriff Gimblett directed the jury to acquit them on the ground that the prosecution had not proved they acted with any criminal intent . 
Her judgement can be appealed . 
If he appeals , the Lord Advocate of Scotland will have to contend in our highest appeal court for the lawfulness of a defence policy based on weapons of mass destruction . 
The doctrine of double-effect has no application to weapons which , in their intrinsic design are designed to cause mass destruction . 
The courage and judicial independence of Sheriff Gimblett - the courage of Angela Zetter and her companions stand in sharp contrast with the petulant failure of the United States Senate to ratify the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty . 
Like most of my countrymen I am deeply hostile to the use of Scottish waters for Trident . 
Unsurprisingly , we deplore the Senate ' s action . 
But Mr Corbett has a very strong point . 
All we are doing now with the remainder of this text is annexing the implementation of the interinstitutional agreement to the modus vivendi of this Parliament . 
I ask the House to think very carefully about what they are doing here . 
By a decision of Parliament ' s Bureau it has been implemented as it affects Parliament ' s staff . 
Let us not put ourselves in that position ! 
Mr President , very much in the same tone as Mr Gil-Robles I voted against referral back and for the amendment which , sadly , was rejected . 
I have to say that a section of the EPP Group were playing games on this issue . 
There is a valid need to draw a distinction between staff matters , which are a Bureau responsibility , and Members ' matters which are a plenary responsibility . 
That would have been dealt with by Amendment No 2 had we reached that amendment . 
I was disappointed because the Christian Democrats , as well as the Socialists , had put their names to Amendment No 2 and so it would have been carried and the matter would have been covered . 
As Mr Gil-Robles has said , and as I said earlier , we are now in a position where the interinstitutional agreement as regards OLAF applies to the Commission , to the Council and to the staff of this institution but it does not apply to the Members of this institution . 
Given that we are the institution that , quite rightly , has made great play of tackling fraud in European Community institutions , how are the citizens of Europe going to understand that the only people with whom OLAF has not reached an agreement in terms of internal investigations are Members of the European Parliament ? 
It puts us in an intolerable position . 
Madam President , it is not a point about the Minutes but about the problem that was mentioned in the Minutes . 
It does seem to me that the difficulties that many of us had yesterday were to do with the fact that the Vice-President in the chair was too quick to close the vote . 
And people who had their fingers on the button discovered that it was not registering . 
Could the President and the Vice-President take careful note and discuss with the sessional services the need for a reasonable space between calling the vote and counting it . 
Mr President , it is regrettable that again today we are having this debate in the absence of a decision from the committee currently meeting in Brussels . 
It is also regrettable that this debate has taken such a hysterical tone in certain parts of Europe , fuelled by some of the London-based media in particular . 
I wonder whether the Commissioner , in his summing up , can state that every other Member State now meets equally high standards in beef production and slaughter . 
These conditions set by Europe have been met and still we are not able to export . 
Our farmers rightly wonder what was the point of all of the pain they went through over the last few years in order to meet the high standards which have been set and which have been met . 
What would be the point of having more years of discussion and of setting up a European food standards agency if its recommendations were not to be implemented ? 
The issue here is that if we are to have European standards then surely we must be entitled to expect that these standards are accepted by the participating Member States . 
Our consumers must be protected in relation to food safety , but consumers are also entitled and intelligent enough to make choices . 
I am quite convinced , as a resident of Angus in the heart of Scotland ' s Aberdeen Angus beef production country , that consumers in France , as elsewhere , would choose Scottish beef if they were allowed to do so . 
Mr President , I have certainly enjoyed some of the speeches today , not least the opening speech by Mr Donnelly where he seemed to be criticising the failure of the French and the British governments to achieve any solution to this escalating trade war . 
I would remind Mr Donnelly that both the governments in France and the United Kingdom are socialist governments . 
It has just been revealed that the Minister for Agriculture from his party in the United Kingdom has not even been in dialogue with his opposite number in France , which is ridiculous when you consider the way tempers are getting raised in the process of this trade war . 
This will be seen as one of the great mistakes of this entire century as far as agriculture is concerned . 
There is rage when we know that in France there is also BSE - 22 cases so far this year . 
Yet even injured and diseased animals which die on the farm are finding their way into rendering plants and the tallow from these animals is finding its way into the pharmaceutical industry , into the cosmetic industry and therefore into the food chain . 
There is no level playing field , as other speakers have said . 
I hope that we can find a diplomatic solution and we must do everything within our power to do that . 
I appeal to the Commission and to the UK government to put pressure on France to comply with the findings of the Scientific Steering Committee , whatever those may be later today . 
In my innocence and naivety I thought that when the scientific steering committee met last week and made their announcement , indeed the announcement was made by Mr Pascale , himself a Frenchman as President of that committee , indicating the unanimous approval of that committee that British beef is as safe as any other beef in the EU or possibly safer than any beef worldwide , that was the top of the pyramid . 
I did not think you could go any higher than that . 
Now we are told by Mr Byrne that we need just a few extra days of discussions . 
Well , it appears to me that we have had three months since 1 August in which the French and the Germans have defied EU law . 
Are you now telling me Mr Byrne that during those three months when a vast dossier was prepared by the French food safety agency that they did not examine the technical implications embracing traceability , testing , derived products , controls and labelling ? 
Are you telling me that only now at this last minute after the scientific steering committee has made its unanimous pronouncement they want further technical clarification of those points ? 
It seems ludicrous . 
What exactly are they asking for ? 
We heard Mr Martinez questioning the competence of the Scientific Steering Committee . 
Is Mr Martinez aware , and are you Commissioner aware , of the fact that the AFSSA , the French food safety agency , has an annual budget of EUR 52 million and has a board of governors of whom 50 % are appointed by the French government , the other 50 % representing farmers , food retailers and food distributors ? 
So let us ask some questions about their competence . 
We were assured at the highest level in Paris that this matter was not being driven by protectionism but was being driven purely by science . 
This smacks to me of pure commercial protectionism and now it has been exposed . 
Are you aware this is the way that the AFSSA is being driven , Mr Byrne ? 
In general terms I find Mrs Smet ' s report and most of the committee ' s amendments wholly acceptable and worthy of support . 
Others have referred to particular activities and sectors which are proposed to be covered for the first time by working time regulations . 
For example , my group colleague , Mrs Lambert , referred to doctors in training and I associate myself totally with her remarks and support the proposals relating to that sector . 
I do have a concern though that sea-fishermen , especially share fishermen , who are wholly self-employed , will be adversely affected by some aspects of these proposals and I seek some clarification of this . 
Share fishermen jointly own their vessels and are paid solely by share of their catches . 
Their work patterns are dictated by factors outwith any control , such as weather conditions and fish movements , and therefore it is difficult to imagine how restrictions on working time could possibly be practical in this sector . 
Of course , health and safety issues are a major reason for limiting working time but fisheries is already subject to codes of practice and to regulations which are monitored by competent authorities . 
Share fishermen up to now have been assured that their unique circumstances would be catered for through exemption . 
I believe that share fishermen must continue to be regarded as a special case and not subjected to impractical regulations . 
I will be taking full account of the potential impact on fishermen of the various proposals and amendments before casting my vote tomorrow . 
I will be listening very carefully to the summing up of this debate for indications that the needs of share fishermen particularly can be accommodated satisfactorily . 
With your permission , in the debate I made specific reference to share fishermen and sought specific assurances about the position of share fishermen . 
In a previous debate on the subject when I made similar comments , the then Commissioner made it very clear in the summing up that share fishermen were not included in the proposals . 
Can the Commissioner confirm whether that is or is not still the case ? 
With your permission again , share fishermen , as I attempted to explain clearly , are self-employed due to the nature of their ownership and operation of their vessels . 
Previously , share fishermen were specifically exempt from working time regulations in the same way that other self-employed people are or had been . 
I just asked for clarification of whether the particular position of share fishermen has changed since the previous debate ? 
I was just saying that the issue is whether fishermen of that kind are regarded as employed or not . 
This is critical to us and the Commission has still omitted to answer the question . 
Mr President , I thank the Commissioner for his good lead to us in bringing forward this clear , rational strategy document that helps us to see how the Commission means to bring forward the internal market strategy . 
Thanks also to my colleague Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi for having made such an excellent job of putting together thoughts in a motion for a resolution on this strategy . 
We are very happy with that but we will suggest one amendment : to clarify the position of artists in the Community , in particular in the areas of freedom of movement , establishment and taxation . 
In the main paper we are particularly attracted - as are others - by the emphasis on the need for a coherent approach to Internet regulation and e-commerce ; also , intellectual property , distance selling and data protection - taking them all together in order to protect consumer rights and ensure adequate rules of viability . 
Naturally , in our group , we want to see that the achievement of the internal market involves a balance - as you said yourself , Commissioner - between market freedom and the need to protect the environment , consumer health and consumer confidence . 
I should also like to mention our sense - like yours - that the ordinary citizens need to see an increase in the speed and efficiency of infringement proceedings against defaulting Member States where the rights of European Union citizens exercised within the internal market are impinged upon or denied . 
I am very upset , as a member of the academic profession , to see yet again the issue of foreign language lecturers in Italian universities coming forward without yet a resolution after eleven years , after three judgments in favour of the rights of these ordinary citizens seeking to exercise freedom of movement , seeking to take advantage of that fundamental principle of the Union and the internal market of no discrimination on nationality grounds . 
It really is disgraceful that this issue still remains open . 
I hope that the Internal Market Commissioner and his colleagues will make it their urgent business to bring this to an end . 
The Commissioner has shown himself wise and far-sighted in his strategy document . 
I trust and am sure he will show himself no less resolute in pressing home cases which have to be brought to a conclusion speedily . 
Before the next series of votes on the Smet report , could Mrs Smet be given the opportunity to clarify on the record a point which she was not given the opportunity to clarify at the end of the debate yesterday in relation to share fishermen , who are self-employed fishermen . 
Can Mrs Smet confirm on the record whether or not the provisions of this proposal will apply or not to self-employed fishermen , please ? 
In relation to the strategy for the interior market , I was very glad that Amendment No 1 was carried . 
My distinguished colleague Mrs Echerer , put this forward in our group to favour the position of artists who have to travel throughout the Community , earning in many different countries . 
I was very glad that the Commission showed willingness to take our point on board . 
Finally , in the debate last night on the whole of that resolution , I drew Mr Bolkenstein ' s attention to the points in the report which say we must remove barriers which are preventing the implementation of the internal market . 
I drew attention yet again to the problem of foreign language lecturers in Italian universities whose rights have been denied despite three judgments at the highest level in Europe . 
I hope the Commission , as Mr Bolkenstein indicated last night , is pressing vigorously ahead to prevent this injustice . 
Commissioner , I am grateful for your assurance that this is the first step of the procedure for infringement proceedings . 
They have now been told that they have to wait a further 14 days until we get the French position . 
Has the time not come for the Commission to throw the book at the delinquent Member State ? 
Does not anything else make the Commission look limp and lily-livered and undermine public confidence in the European Union ? 
Will you make it clear please at your press conference that the full force of the law will be used against the delinquent Member State unless this ban is lifted . 
My interest is to assess the efficacy of the EU in giving development aid to any of the third world countries . 
So will the Commission answer my questions if I take one of the third world countries as a model and try to assess how effectual our aid is and what the delegation does ? 
I wonder , if the Commissioner would agree that education is vital in terms of tackling violence against women ? 
The campaign emphasises that violence , whether it be for social , cultural or economic reasons , is unacceptable and should be treated as such by local authorities , social workers and the police . 
Would he look at this programme and consider disseminating it throughout the Member States as an example of best practice in tackling this very difficult , but nevertheless , important area ? 
The border between Andalusia and Gibraltar has been the scene of absurd and inordinately long delays over the last several months . 
What steps is the Commission taking or going to take to ensure that travellers can freely and easily move across this internal EU border without undue formality ? 
This proposal for a Council Regulation is an important proposal . 
My committee has worked very hard to prepare Parliament 's response to this proposal in time for the deadline set down by the Council and in time for the Council to discuss it on 2 December . 
If we have time to debate this report this morning , then we must vote at lunch-time . 
This will enable Parliament to give its response in time for the Council to discuss it . 
However , if we are not able to have this debate this morning , if there are too many speakers down for the Napolitano report and the Giannakou report , then I would support Mr Pirker 's proposal that we not vote on the matter tomorrow . 
However , if it is not to possible to vote on it today , might we ask the services of Parliament whether it would be possible to have the debate this evening and the vote on the Wednesday of the December part-session to allow us to forward the results to the Council by the Thursday ; and might we also ask for the assistance of the Commissioner in intervening with the Council on this matter ? 
Liberals in this House have a number of concerns about the draft protocol that was put forward in this draft regulation . 
There are certain `` legal grey areas '' . 
The extension of EURODAC to persons who are not seeking asylum is , conceivably , outside the competence of the Dublin Convention , for example . 
There is the risk that this protocol , this regulation , may be unworkable . 
Member States will have little incentive to fingerprint third country nationals whom they find illegally on their territory , if there is a risk that they may become responsible for them . 
The Liberal Democrats will support this report . 
We will not support amendments 13 to 20 : although we share concerns about finger-printing , we believe that the attempt to stop a register being created will fail to deal in realistic terms with the challenges that we face . 
Let me say one thing to Mr Schulz who raised the question of liberality . 
This is a time for cool heads and good argument . 
We believe that this report achieves that , and that is why we will be happy to give it our support . 
Specific actions are needed in favour of developing countries , in particular the least developed countries , using partnerships to reduce inequalities between rich and poor countries . 
Increased coherence between trade , labour , environmental , animal welfare and other internationally accepted regulations and principles of ` corporate governance ' through improved cooperation between the WTO , the ILO , the United Nations , the Multilateral Environment Agreements and other international institutions must be mandatory . 
I therefore support the view that the Round be concluded as a single undertaking with results being considered globally . 
I would prefer no agreement to an unfair agreement . 
Mr President , Commissioner and Colleagues , as someone who has worked in and known Rwanda since 1984 , as someone born in Tanzania where I lived for many years , as someone speaking the main African language of the Great Lakes region , I speak on this subject with experience and knowledge . 
Genocide in any country is evil and must be condemned without reservation . 
The International Criminal Tribunal in Arusha must do its work efficiently , and we hope that those doing this work will take measures to bring this process to a just and speedy end . 
This is not acceptable . 
We need to evaluate the work of the tribunal to identify the weaknesses so that we can furnish appropriate assistance to ensure high standards of justice without wasting time and resources . 
The innocent victims of genocide and conflict can not wait for ever to rebuild their lives in order to live in peace in their own villages and in their own homes . 
This resolution , agreed by all political groups in this Parliament , expresses clearly our concerns , hopes and expectations . 
It is now up to the government of Rwanda and those of neighbouring countries to take serious action to bring about genuine peace in the area . 
They need to cooperate fully with the EU special envoy , the EU , the United Nations , the OAU and all humanitarian aid agencies in doing what is needed to support peace and stability in Rwanda and the Great Lakes region in general . 
Few issues so highlight the differences of cultural approach between Member States . 
I feel this report reflects a good consensus and I congratulate Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou on the work that she has done in putting it together . 
I belong to a growing minority in the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party and also in this House which believes a radical change to our approach may be needed . 
Quite apart from the ethical flaw in the prohibitionist argument - the state has no right to prevent a responsible adult from taking drugs - the fact is that prohibition is not working . 
Our approach , which is based on controlling the supply of drugs , is using up massive resources . 
The police in Bristol in my constituency tell me that 85 % of all crime is drug-related . 
This is destroying our inner cities , where drug dealers find a large market and sometimes even become role models for disenchanted young people . 
It is filling our prisons with people who need care rather than incarceration , and it discriminates disproportionately against ethnic minorities , some of which have cultures in which drug abuse is less frowned upon than in others . 
But , more importantly , it is helping to fund other forms of criminal activity and strengthening international organised crime . 
We need at least to consider switching resources away from attacking the supply of drugs and towards attacking demand . 
Mr President , Mrs Rühle has produced an excellent report on this subject . 
I am the newly appointed rapporteur on the EIB , the European Central Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development . 
I agree with the amendments proposed by Mrs Rühle as they express clearly real concerns about the EIB 's transparency , efficacy , accountability and conformity with the Community 's objectives and policies . 
I will address briefly each of these concerns . 
Firstly , there is widespread concern about the EIB 's transparency . 
My predecessor from the Socialist Group , Mr Freddy Blak , Mrs Rühle , the author of the report , many Members of Parliament and the Court of Auditors have all expressed their opinion about the lack of transparency in the operations of the EIB . 
Even the World Bank and the East European NGO called Bankwatch have publicly stated this view . 
I , as the new rapporteur for the Bank , requested Sir Brian Unwin , the President of the EIB , for an initial meeting to set out a framework to assess the efficiency of the Bank . 
I am sorry to report to this House that Sir Brian has not even bothered to ring me or arrange to meet despite numerous telephone reminders . 
Such disregard for this new European Parliament will erode , yet again , public respect and confidence in the European Union . 
Thirdly , what about public accountability ? 
In May 1999 , my predecessor , Mr Blak , Vice-President of CoCobu , asked 26 specific questions about alleged fraud , mismanagement , corruption and cover-up - I mean cover-up - in the Bank 's activities , including in treasury operations , over the period 1993-1998 . 
I have asked Sir Brian for such a response but , once again , he has chosen to ignore my request . 
I have been told by Mr Martí , one of his vice-presidents , that the EIB is owned by the Member States and , as such , according to the Treaty , it is not an EU institution obliged to respond to the European Parliament , the Court of Auditors or OLAF . 
Only matters relating to loans to non-EU countries where the Community gives loan guarantees can be discussed with Members of Parliament . 
I ask this House , what are the Member States ? 
Are they not the governments of the people who live , work and pay taxes in the countries that we call Member States ? 
Are we not , as the only elected representatives of the people of these Member States , expected to safeguard the interests of the people who live in the Member States ? 
Does the Treaty specifically forbid the European Parliament from having access to information ? 
Certainly not . 
Therefore , if the EIB is confident that it functions well and has nothing to hide , why is Sir Brian Unwin , its president , denying access to Parliament , the Court of Auditors and OLAF ? 
Clearly there is support for this as Ecofin , in its meeting on 8 October in Tampere , reinforced its previous criticisms of the EIB 's management and performance by directing it to open its doors to OLAF and the Court of Auditors . 
I have seen the decision taken by the EIB concerning this directive and according to paragraphs 5 and 6 of the decision taken by the Bank it will not open its doors to OLAF . 
It is about time this House told the Bank to open its doors to OLAF and the Court of Auditors . 
Mr President , my remarks will concern security aspects of today ' s debate . 
That policy , I should tell you , is equivalent in effect to the stance of Austria , Finland and Sweden , and also Ireland , though the occasion of Lord Robertson 's intervention was Ireland 's accession to the Partnership for Peace Programme . 
I hope that the President-in-Office of the Council would deplore , as I do , a party political intervention by the Secretary-General of NATO , the logical implication of which is an attack on the defence policy of Finland and other Member States . 
For the record , I should like to make it clear that , in common with all our colleagues in the Green European Free Alliance , we in the SNP are committed to the idea of collective security in Europe and welcome developments the Council will pursue to this end . 
But we are rootedly opposed to the maintenance of nuclear weapons in Scottish coastal waters , or coastal waters anywhere in Europe , or the land of Europe . 
This is a determining factor for defence policy as far as we are concerned , and I do not for a moment imagine that Ireland is in the process of developing a policy aimed at giving hospitality to nuclear weapons in their waters . 
Indeed , Mr Collins assured me that this has nothing to do with NATO membership . 
In general terms , I welcome the thrust of Mrs Fraga 's paper which should help to encourage market stability . 
This use of forward-looking methods of adaptation of supply and demand by producer organisations should be of great assistance to the overall competitiveness and efficiency of the fishery sector as a whole . 
Stressing the importance of basing decisions on scientific and technical data and studies is fundamental , not just concerning the COM in fisheries , but also in general fisheries management . 
Moreover , the fact that the proposal will bring improved transparency and knowledge of the market and products , especially for the consumer , is a positive move . 
I also support the committee 's amendments which seek to include aquaculture within the support mechanism . 
I abstained on this resolution , and I have two points of particular reservation . 
The issue of the Euro-bond market is of general concern to all people in Europe ; it is not just a London issue . 
In doing that , he appears to me to have misrepresented both the position of Ireland as confirmed by Minister Andrews in this morning ' s Irish Times and the position of my own party in this argument in the United Kingdom . 
I congratulate Niels Busk on his report . 
Mr Busk is a very sensible member of the Fisheries Committee and I think that Parliament can have confidence in his report . 
First of all the Fisheries Committee was presented with a fait accompli by the Commission in respect of this proposal . 
These regulations actually came into force on 1 July this year , although the Commission tabled the proposals before this Parliament on 12 July . 
We were therefore left in a position where we had no alternative but to support the proposals . 
I find this behaviour extraordinary . 
I recall Commissioner Fischler stating during his hearing before the Fisheries Committee on 30 August that he wished to cooperate closely with Parliament and the standing committees of Parliament in a working partnership . 
I hope that such a working partnership will indeed manifest itself in future and that we will not again be treated in such a cavalier fashion by the Commission . 
Secondly , although I do not intend to recommend that we vote against Mr Busk 's report , I feel it is worth sounding a note of caution that the rapporteur has called for more Community financial involvement in inspection and control of fisheries . 
Such involvement implies additional budget resources and , as my colleagues on the Committee on Budgets never cease to point out , the cake is limited in size so that every time we cut off another slice it means less for some other equally important sector . 
We must be financially realistic and prudent and I trust that the House will note my concern at this latest threatened raid on the fisheries budget . 
Mr President , the Helsinki Summit took account of the proposal for a charter of rights . 
Today President Chirac made clear his view that an enlarged Europe must be built around respect for rights . 
We agree with that , but we insist that a democratic European Union must be built on the rule of law as an equal partner with a charter of rights . 
Another issue alive is that of enlarging the Union . 
We share enthusiasm for enlargement provided proper institutional reform goes ahead . 
It should , however , be remembered that there are not only nations in Eastern and Central Europe seeking entry , there are ancient nations in Western Europe too , represented here by the European Free Alliance , which seek fair recognition as members in Europe . 
Our claims deserve better than an embarrassed silence that contrasts with the welcome others receive . 
Reform of the institutions must create space for due recognition of existing regions and unrepresented nations . 
We used to hear a lot about the Europe of the regions , a phrase less in use nowadays than a few years ago . 
Not only did the Helsinki Council make paltry progress toward curing Europe 's democratic deficit , but it did nothing at all about what ought to be recognised as a regional deficit . 
Our task in the European Free Alliance is to get it recognised and cured with the help of our colleagues in the Greens/European Free Alliance . 
The Commissioner has surprised me by going as far as he has done and I very much welcome the response that he has given . 
I look forward to working with him on the drafting body . 
I wonder whether you would agree that if , at the end of the day , we end up with a mere political statement , we will have wasted a year of our activity ? 
It is not necessary to have 62 people working to draft a political statement . 
If this is what we are going to end up with we might as well send away a couple of officials to make a draft of the rights that we currently have in the Treaty . 
What we must have at the end of this process is a legally binding set of rights for the citizens of Europe . 
Quite rightly , access to certain parts of the building was denied and Members and staff were evacuated from one part to another . 
I do not know whether this was a fiendish attempt by my Italian friend Mr Dell ` Alba to move us from Strasbourg , whether it was my UK Conservative colleagues who had mistaken the day of President Chirac 's visit , or whether it was a Christmas gift of Belgian chocolates now sticking to the walls of the courtyard . 
But , whatever the case , there was a lot of confusion and an evident lack of knowledge of the procedures for the evacuation of this building . 
I should like to ask whether a note could be circulated to Members and staff outlining normal evacuation procedures and whether , in the case of an event like this , the screens which are dotted all around the building could be used to give Members information on what is going on . 
Mr President , I welcome the Commission 's communication and today 's statements . 
I welcome too Commissioner Patten 's honourable personal commitment and record of success in this regard . 
However , for the Union to talk of a shared legal system between Europe and Macao stretches credibility . 
Recently , a private commercial dispute involving the financial interests of the mainland 's political leaders led to the kidnap in Macao of an innocent Australian-Chinese businessman , Mr James Pang , and his jailing on the mainland for seven years on trumped-up charges . 
Since China has refused to agree to the establishment of a court of final appeal , Macao has barely even the semblance of an independent judiciary which Hong Kong has . 
Today 's news from Hong Kong in this regard is not good . 
The court of final appeal has reversed the judgement of a lower court and convicted two young men for defacing a flag at a peaceful demonstration , despite the incorporation of the ICCPR into the territory 's law . 
It shows how supposed safeguards on freedom in Hong Kong are being quickly eroded . 
In the communication , the Commission talks of `` a solid relationship in terms of culture and civilisation '' . 
I hope the Council and Commission will assure us that they will not shrink from expressing Europe 's outrage at the continued assaults on human rights and human liberties which pose a major challenge to us in the next century . 
Madam President , it is now 18 weeks since the European Commission ordered the lifting of the ban on British beef ; 18 weeks during which time France and Germany have prevaricated while blatantly defying the law ; 18 weeks during which naive attempts at appeasement by the Commission and the hapless UK government have been rebuffed in circumstances which have caused deep humiliation to both ; 18 weeks during which British beef farmers have continued to suffer catastrophic losses , exacerbated by the titanic efforts of the French government to blacken the good name of British beef internationally . 
Under the chairmanship of a French scientist , that committee unanimously approved the safety of British beef and unanimously rejected the French position . 
It is preposterous , therefore , for Mr Jospin to endeavour to drive a coach and horses through the European directive and the British date-based export scheme by introducing his own conditions . 
It is Mr Jospin who is in the dock and it is not for those who break the law to attempt to revise the rules . 
Can I also ask the Commission what action they intend to take against Germany ? 
The German Government has been content to hide behind the French coat-tails throughout this dispute , blaming the intricacies of their federal system of government for the delays in lifting the ban in Germany . 
We took the opportunity to personally draw President Chirac 's attention to the quality of Scottish beef . 
Since the start of the beef crisis , SNP members here have consistently advocated that the situation in Scotland should be assessed separately with a view to a phased re-introduction of export trading . 
Mr President , I was interested in what Mrs Jackson said . 
I had heard a report that the debate on second reading on the late payments directive would also happen at 9 p.m. . 
The timetable has clearly become extremely disrupted . 
Many of us have other engagements to try to fit in this evening . 
Can the President give an authoritative ruling on the timing of events later today , please ? 
Am I to understand that you either will not , or are unable to , tell us what the timetable is for later this evening ? 
I wonder if the Council would agree that the best way to stem the flow of economic migrants is by improving economic conditions in the host country ? 
In other words , if enlargement works , if the Agenda 2000 programme is successful in improving the economic situation in Central and Eastern European countries , this will of itself reduce the flow of economic migrants from those countries to existing Member States of the European Union . 
I would like to compliment and congratulate the rapporteur , Mr Murphy , and the committee , on the work they have done on this . 
Although we are a small House tonight this is a terribly important subject . 
It can not be said too often that small businesses do not have deep pockets and so have greater difficulty riding out cash-flow crises than bigger ones . 
Worse still there is often no real redress . 
Though there is a statutory right , for example in the United Kingdom , to impose interest on late payments , there is practically no way to enforce this and court action is impractical to recover small debts . 
We need to have some form of enforcement machinery . 
It is grand that the Commission has put its shoulder behind the wheel of speeding up commercial payments but it is far from the case that the Commission is beyond reproach itself . 
This is unacceptable . 
We must make sure that the Commission does as well as it expects others to do . 
Mr President , Djibouti has a population of half a million comprising two Muslim tribes , the Issas and the Afars . 
Djibouti 's national assets are its port and its strategic position in the Horn of Africa . 
Trapped in the conflict between the Afars and the Issas and the problems of the neighbouring countries , and with the desires and strategic policies of countries which dominate its strategic position , it is caught in a situation where it is desperately poor and , of course , undemocratic . 
The leader of Djibouti today is doing things that we absolutely abhor . 
The Afars ' leader is in jail , without trial , with his supporters in abominable conditions . 
He is going blind . 
Such conditions exist in Djibouti today that we really have to look at our policy because it is part of Lomé , it receives aid from the EU and one of our Member States , France , is very strategically placed and has considerable influence in Djibouti . 
This sort of dictatorship , this sort of terror of civilians and abuse of resources by unnecessary expenditure on arms for a country of that size is totally inexcusable . 
So I hope that you will all support this resolution condemning the abominable conditions of prisoners and civilians in Djibouti . 
