Mr President , earlier this week President Prodi announced that one of the Commission ' s strategic objectives for the next five years would be to aim for full employment . 
He acknowledged that 15 million Europeans are currently looking for work and that unemployment is the main source of poverty and social exclusion . 
What is more , the Portuguese Presidency sees the fight against unemployment as top priority . 
Yet , all too often these political priorities are invisible in everyday policies . 
The Commission ' s decision to allow the ABB-Alsthom merger to go ahead is a case in point . 
The new company has announced its intention to initiate a restructuring plan with the aim of making savings . 
This global restructuring plan could lead to the loss of up to 12 000 jobs . 
Point 17 of the Community Charter of Fundamental Social Rights of Workers stresses the need for consultation , adding that this shall apply especially in companies having establishments in two or more Member States . 
The Commission would do well in this sort of situation to make its decisions not simply on the basis of whether a merger will distort competition but also on the basis of the social and economic consequences . 
We need more joined-up policy making on these issues . 
I welcome the statement made by Commissioner Liikanen , but I also look for the support of this Parliament to ensure that the legislation which we have passed on workers ' rights is implemented rigorously and to ensure that impact assessments on the workforce for proposed mergers are undertaken as a matter of course . 
Mr President , what has not been stressed sufficiently thus far in the debate I believe is democracy and subsidiarity . 
Many of the atrocities in the Balkans that we spoke of earlier and much of the racism and antisemitism is because communities everywhere have not been allowed the ability , in line with the concept of subsidiarity , to develop within their own communities the democracy that people need everywhere if they are to evolve and create within their own regions and nations , the social rights , justice , respect for minorities , coexistence of different people and respect for every race and people . 
People within their own communities therefore suffer . 
They are unable to establish the structures they need so that human rights can prosper and the blight of racism can be forever removed . 
In own nation , Wales , for example , we have no empowerment to establish our own laws to counter racism and defend human rights . 
The principles of cohesion and the drive to limit poverty and depravity in our communities are a well-settled concept in the European Union . 
However , it must encompass respect for minorities everywhere if it to inspire the world in its drive towards defeating racism and defending human rights . 
Mr President , one of the main problems arising in this whole issue is that there is not any legal sanction from Europe to ensure that Member States adhere to the excellent concept of additionality . 
Additionality is your concept , and it is up to you to ensure that it works effectively in Member States . 
We understand as well , of course , the problems you are facing concerning the overlapping of programmes , creating problems of continuity for you . 
Verification is another matter that needs to be tackled with Member States , because they are guilty as well . 
We understand your problems , that they are not providing for you sufficient data in good time , especially with Objectives 2 , 3 and 4 , to enable you to ensure that the system works more effectively . 
This is clear non-compliance . 
The European Parliament and the European Union admit that our nation of Wales is poor and yet the UK government , not only the Labour government , has not complied with additionality . 
I think some momentum is being lost , Mr President . 
I was talking to councils in Wales yesterday . 
They need this scheme to go ahead . 
It is in line with the excellent principle of cohesion , and we ask the Commission to adhere to that and to assist the poorest regions in the European Union . 
Mr President , I hope that honourable Members will forgive me if I stand back and ask a fundamental question . 
Why does the European Union need a common asylum policy ? 
No one would deny that this is an area where countries can gain from mutual collaboration but , of course , there is nothing new about cooperation among our home countries in the asylum field . 
Since long before the signing of the Treaty of Rome , the Member States of the Union have been bound together by a complex web of agreements covering the right of asylum , the treatment of refugees , the principle of non-refoulement and much else . 
We must not make the mistake , as we so often seem to do in this House , of believing that the only alternative to EU action is some kind of anarchy wherein no nation consults with any other . 
On the contrary , the alternative to action at EU level is a negotiation of bilateral and multilateral accords among independent nations . 
Now , how can this possibly be ? 
Well , it was Aristotle who first adumbrated the principle that which no one owns no one will look after . 
His precept surely holds true among nations as it does among individuals . 
Put bluntly , a border guard who sees that a traveller is heading for a destination beyond his own frontiers may have little incentive to detain him and so to provoke an asylum application within his own jurisdiction . 
According to the United Nations High Commissioner for refugees , 93 000 people applied for sanctuary in the United Kingdom last year . 
This makes Britain the most common destination for asylum claimants in Europe , a position we hold jointly with Germany . 
But what is most astonishing is that this figure has risen in the United Kingdom by some 40 % since the mid-1990s while across the European Union as a whole , it has remained relatively stable . 
I say ` astonishing ' because the vast number of applicants in my constituency have passed through several safe countries prior to their arrival there . 
I am proud of Britain ' s role through the centuries as a safe haven for those fleeing from injustice and wrong and I know that Members across this House will feel a similar pride in the honourable record of their countries . 
That record depends on our ability to distinguish between economic migrants and genuine refugees and it depends critically on our having the resolve to secure our borders against false claimants . 
As cooperating states we can do this , as a single territory the evidence suggests that we can not . 
We need to be imaginative about how we address the issues of staffing and building requirements . 
The institutions can not respond to enlargement by just adding an extra post here or an office there . 
We do not want a Lego approach to enlargement . 
What we need is a major rethink about management of operations and that involves all the institutions exploring alternative ways and embracing new information technologies wholeheartedly . 
This is especially important in relation to linguistic support . 
I am totally in support of the idea outlined by Mr Ferber regarding the setting up of an interinstitutional recruitment office because I believe it will help reduce costs and reduce competition between the institutions in attracting new personnel . 
As everybody here needs to recognise , there are major limitations in relation to resources that will be available as a result of enlargement and there are implications for the financial perspective in relation to Category 5 expenditure . 
However , these guidelines are not just about enlargement they are about policy direction for all the institutions next year . 
Therefore , greater accountability and transparency have to be top priority because the European citizen does not distinguish between the different institutions . 
Any changes have to be clearly justified and transparent . 
Improvements and efficiencies need to be demonstrated by every institution and I believe that this can only be achieved through tools such as activity-based budgeting and thorough examination of current policies and systems and procedures . 
One of the biggest inefficiencies that we have is the location of EU institutions and if we want to be taken seriously we need to focus our work on one seat . 
I appreciate we have obligations under the treaties to two different locations but we should make sure that these are not expanded . 
Many of you are aware that the UK is reluctant to expand the scope of qualified majority voting but this is one issue where the UK would gladly see majority voting take place . 
Would he also consider whether he would extend the call for help - if the need arises - to beyond the European Union countries ? 
For example , in Mozambique I found it quite extraordinary that the Indian navy was on the other side of the Indian Ocean and could have come to Mozambique very quickly , but nobody ever involved them in disaster relief in Mozambique , while people were hanging on trees . 
Mr President , I also commend the report and thank Mrs Gröner for the excellent effort she has made . 
Youth is the sector in our Community that is so often ignored . 
Indeed in the Committee on Culture , Youth , Education , the Media and Sport it is the `` Cinderella '' sector of funding , as with sport . 
We hope that imbalance will be redressed . 
The insufficient commitment to youth affairs from the Council , when the European Parliament was calling for EUR 980 million , shows , in my view , this grave disparity and the lack of commitment on the part of the Council to a very important sector . 
The danger , in this regard , with the changes that are proposed , of combining two programmes - Youth for Europe and the European Voluntary Service - is that several good parts of both those programmes might be lost . 
We should include the best parts of those excellent initiatives in whatever programme we formulate in future . 
The new Youth Programme emphasises the developing links with the youth of entrant countries . 
That is an excellent initiative . 
The bridges built between youth will be the bridges that eventually unite Europe . 
The agreement to constantly review the situation is an initiative that I welcome . 
When more funds are needed , budgets should not be cast in stone but be flexible so that they can be amended in the best interests of the deserving needs of youth . 
What more deserving cause could there be than supporting youth in the European Union . 
Mr President , I am pleased to have the opportunity of speaking in the debate and I congratulate the rapporteur for his work . 
One clear result , of course , of the proposal before us to curtail or remove this subsidy on school milk will be decreased availability of milk and a drop in the consumption of milk in schools . 
I ask you sincerely : is that what you want to see happening ? 
Can I suggest to you what might happen as a result . 
But to use schoolchildren as the means towards that end is a sinister way to go about it , especially in a world that is becoming far more health-conscious by the day . 
This is the age of non-GM food and organic products , and the proposals before us represent a major step backwards . 
This would be a catastrophe , not only for the health of schoolchildren - our future citizens - but to the viability of communities also . 
I come from a part of Wales , where GDP per head of the population is less than 75 % of the European Union average , in other words , an Objective 1 area . 
Cutting the subsidy , however , would make my community even poorer , a community whose farmers have lost 80 % of their income in 2 1/2 years . 
There is also the misconception that Member States will somehow foot this bill and make up the deficit on the basis that it is their responsibility to deal with health and social policy . 
Sadly , it affects other nations as well . 
It is time we rewarded them , particularly in the peripheral and deprived communities of the European Union . 
Cutting this subsidy would destroy an industry already on its knees . 
We need to give a window of opportunity to these people and provide them with the assistance to sustain themselves as they undoubtedly face the most difficult period economically they have ever faced . 
It is clear to me that the proposals before us are not merely a means to curtail the subsidy , but rather , in the event of a lack of participation by Member States in the wake of the subsidy cut , to terminate it entirely . 
This continued erosion of the milk industry is , I am afraid , part of a general trend that we are witnessing throughout the agricultural industry . 
Without people farming in our villages and communities , there will be no rural communities ; nobody left to service the needs of those of us that sometimes visit rural areas for recreation . 
The process of amalgamating farms and the buying-up of farm units by consortia pushing up prices unrealistically is already well advanced in my nation of Wales and is becoming the sad pattern in other regions and nations as well . 
I believe we should call a halt to this general erosion of our rural communities . 
At the present moment in time , that requirement transcends the need to cut milk subsidies . 
The Agricultural Committee deserve every support in this regard . 
Mr Maat has done well in a very difficult situation and I wish him every success . 
. The reason for this intervention is to clarify why this House should oppose the Commission ' s proposals to cut subsidies for school milk by half . 
I am particularly grateful to all my colleagues who have turned up in force to hear me speak and present my first report to Parliament and the heaving public galleries . 
All are waiting with bated breadth to hear my speech . 
If we delay or fail to pass this report in plenary as soon as possible , all further assistance , food supply , housing , shelter , water , sanitation and education , to the most vulnerable people in the world , will be severely affected as there will be no legal base in the European Union to support them and to fund them . 
What we are doing today is to consider a Commission proposal to extend the regulation on aid to uprooted people in Asia and Latin America , which expired on 31 December 1999 . 
Between 1997 and 1999 , Parliament sanctioned EUR 240 million . 
This new regulation , to be brought in at a later date , should build on , and take into account , the existing regulation as well the annual report and the evaluation which the Commission has undertaken to present to Parliament and Council in the very near future , and no later than September . 
The European Parliament ' s original report on the current regulation , the Howitt report , was exemplary in how it was constructed by Parliament . 
It had considerable success in improving the existing draft and thus played an important part in supporting and improving the text which was finally adopted . 
Notably , the Parliament contributed to a strengthening of the regulation in its reference to environmental concerns , complementary support and cooperation and assisting local host populations , a strong approach for targeting support programmes towards women refugees , particularly those who have been the victims of rape , and a clear provision for the upholding of the `` non-refoulement '' principle , i.e. protection against forced return . 
Mr Howitt engaged then in a very positive dialogue with the Irish presidency as well as with the Commission in order to improve on the existing draft . 
In addition , and more importantly , more than fifty NGOs were consulted . 
Therefore the Parliament played a major role in producing this regulation with its report . 
Of these , the current regulation and the one year extension that our report today is calling for , will continue to help 2.9 million Afghani refugees of whom about 40 % are in Pakistan and Iran and the 60 % balance in Afghanistan itself . 
A total of EUR 24.3 million was given to Afghani refugees with a further EUR 960 000 to Thailand , EUR 6 million to Sri Lanka , EUR 11.8 million to Burma and EUR 1.8 million to Nepal . 
In Afghanistan , about 2 million people were assisted by the mine-clearance programme which is crucial in returning that country back to normality . 
This is also a very timely report in the context of asylum-seekers . 
We are now presented with a solution by this Parliament , by our institutions in Europe , where we want to and can help people where the problem is . 
We can stop people needing or wanting to come across if we can help them at the place where the problem has arisen . 
The central thrust of my report is to help the people in war-torn areas , in ravaged parts of the world , to settle back to normality , to have proper foundations and sanitation , proper infrastructure , and to stop them needing to travel as asylum seekers and refugees . 
Mr President , I am pleased to have this opportunity to address Parliament on this very important issue . 
In an unstable agricultural industry , the opportunities offered by flax and hemp in a developing market for natural fibres should not be lost . 
It will provide farmers with the opportunity to diversify - something that they have continually been urged to do by respective Member State governments and by the European Parliament - to produce new employment possibilities . 
In my own nation , Wales , flax processing plants are already being established using European Union aid . 
The report from our Agricultural Committee also includes amendments to extend grant aid for producing flax and hemp to non-arable land , thus providing opportunities to diversify areas of the European Union unable to obtain monetary support under the present regime . 
This is a crucial matter as it affects thousands of hectares of European land with low productive possibilities . 
For example , 80 % of the land mass of my nation , Wales , is non-arable . 
The higher than average incidence of rainfall there makes it ideal terrain for growing short-fibre flax and yet it could not apply for European Union support under prior regulations . 
Its peripheral location , something which has already been stressed here from other areas , and its small family farm units having to compete in a wider market , coupled with the high value of sterling , has meant that it has lost 80 % of its income in less than three years . 
The importance of flax production being subsidised in such areas of the European Union can not be overemphasised . 
I would like to thank the rapporteur for accepting our amendments in this regard . 
We also reject quotas and a ceiling for this production , as this would limit the possibilities to develop diversification and employment possibilities in disadvantaged regions . 
We also believe there should be a balance of support between farmers and processors . 
The rapporteur , Mrs Schierhuber , has agreed to put a limit of EUR 600 per hectare to farmers directly , provided that the farmer proves to the competent authorities , within 18 months after having applied for the subsidy , that he has delivered the fibre to a processor . 
We also agreed if this proof could not be provided to the competent authorities within that period , the subsidy should stay at the level of the premia for set-aside land . 
I congratulate the rapporteur and call on the European Parliament to support the Agriculture Committee 's report . 
Mr President , let me also start by congratulating Mr Ferber on a comprehensive estimate of Parliament 's revenue and expenditure . 
I support the thrust of this report , which is in line with the policy of budgetary rigour , because the major challenges that this Chamber needs to address are greater accountability and transparency which will involve embracing institutional reform with vigour ; secondly , the forthcoming enlargement of the Union and thirdly , a drive towards improving efficiency through effective budgetary control and better use of resources . 
Our main priority has to be to explain to European citizens what we are doing , why we are doing it and how we are doing it . 
We must win the confidence of the European taxpayer and we can only do this by improving accountability through simplifying - not mystifying - the work of Parliament , by reducing jargon , by improving the process of approving legislation and improving the legislative machinery and by making a clear connection between what we do here and how it benefits the individual . 
We are going a long way towards achieving this transparency through the introduction of activity-based budgeting and the proposal we have in this report to put appropriations for political parties in separate budget lines will contribute significantly to achieving this . 
These virtues are all the more important as we move towards the challenge facing the EU at the moment of enlargement . 
We in the Socialist Group strongly believe that the European Parliament should be giving every encouragement to candidate countries in their preparation to joint the EU . 
I have the impression that there are those in this House who appear to be frustrating this process of enlargement by placing unnecessary obstacles in the way and often using spurious arguments to limit the preparation for enlargement : for example , the rejection of the proposal to fill the 35 vacant posts in the language reserve between 2001 and 2002 . 
The reason given , and also outlined by my colleague Mr Elles , is that we believe that this will pre-empt discussions with accession states . 
Do we seriously believe that this small step will influence all the institutions as to which countries are in the first tranche and which are in the second tranche ? 
Do we really believe that by committing less than half a per cent of Parliament 's language budget the political decision will be made and taken out of our control ? 
I am somewhat confused and if I recall correctly , the rapporteur agreed previously and argued vigorously for setting up an interinstitutional recruitment agency in his last report . 
What is the point of approving a joint operation whilst at the same time we are preventing any recruitment of people ? 
I strongly favour planning properly for enlargement because experience has shown that there is a long lead-in time for the training of interpreters and translators . 
It is necessary if the admission of the new Member States into the Institution is to run smoothly from a language point of view . 
Of course I agree that we should not at any stage prejudice political decisions which have to be taken at a later date . 
On the other hand , we should avoid giving out discouraging messages to the applicant countries that are currently making great efforts to get themselves in shape to join the EU . 
What we also need to do is have a vigorous implementation of reform to prepare for enlargement . 
Very recently the President of the European Court of Justice warned that it would be unable to cope with enlargement of the EU . 
What we need to do is to have reforms , not just in the areas of staffing and procedures , but we also need to have a new approach in terms of buildings policy . 
It is vital that the preparations are made during the coming financial year to ensure that Parliament 's buildings are able to accommodate new Member States of an enlarged EU . 
It is also important for provision to be made to set up information offices in the countries which have applied to join the EU . 
It is widely acknowledged that the systems that we have at the moment were set up for the EU when we only had 6 Members and they are creaking at the edges in terms of the Union of 15 Members . 
How are they possibly going to be effective with 25 Members ? 
It is important that we plan and prepare . 
I am a relatively new Member of Parliament and while I see a lot of good work going on in the committees , I am acutely aware that as a result of the new responsibilities in the Treaty of Amsterdam there is a need not just for individual support for Members but also scientific support for committees . 
Since the Treaty of Amsterdam came into force Parliament 's workload has increased very significantly and it is important that this is taken into account in this budget . 
The Commission 's Work Programme now incorporates a very large number of codecision procedures and these procedures have significantly increased our workload . 
If we are to convince the people of the EU of the importance of the European Parliament 's work and persuade them to take it more seriously , we need to improve our systems of working . 
That is why I welcome the report 's emphasis on the common statute for Members and assistants and I hope that we can adopt this as soon as possible . 
I am concerned at the wisdom of putting 30 % of the appropriation into the reserve for security services as the rapporteur proposes . 
Here we have an example of outsourcing that is not working . 
Rather than reducing the budget we should be looking at how we improve security services , and the question we should be asking is : should we have our own security services or should we be retendering it rather than just reducing the budget ? 
I am also disappointed that the report ignores one of the biggest inefficiencies we have . 
Members of the European Parliament are the only parliamentarians who have no say in the location of their seat . 
A seat on three sites is the most incredible waste of time , money , travel and transport . 
Surely , when we are looking at budgetary rigour we have the right to address this issue because until we do so the general public will be confused about what we are doing in so many places . 
It also confuses the roles of the organisation . 
Mr President , I am very sorry that Commissioner Patten had to leave . 
In his absence I am delighted to direct my questions to the Development Commissioner , Mr Nielson . 
I am delighted to hear of new innovations and reorganisations which the Commission is going to put into place . 
EuropeAid would be a very important attribute of the European Union as far as our external relations are concerned . 
It has been extremely embarrassing so far that some of our promises have not been kept . 
Not keeping promises to the poorest people in the world is not the nicest way to go about - as a rich part of the world - trying to help them . 
Consolidating the RELEX Commissioners and increasing the management support staff and resources have my fullest support . 
I am also delighted to hear that they are planning to create a board very much like the World Bank . 
But I should like to ask Commissioner Nielson if he has thought about something which is very important to this side of the House - the IFC in the World Bank has the ability to help in the private sector with funding . 
Micro-credits and various other mechanisms are key to helping people to help themselves . 
Have they considered extending , in EuropeAid , some element of helping people to help themselves through an investment arm where the European Union becomes a partner in venture and enterprise ? 
Mr President , the story of Zimbabwe is one of hope turning to despair - hope that in 1980 Zimbabwe could have realised its full potential and become a leading country in Africa ; despair now because the father of the nation has reduced his creation from being one of the richest and most educated of African countries to being one of the poorest . 
It is a truly remarkable achievement and a case study of mismanagement in recent history . 
I am sure Mr Mugabe ' s place in history books is now secured for all the wrong reasons . 
Today the country is suffering from 50 % unemployment and 60 % inflation ; he is spending USD 1 million a day on a foreign adventure in the Congo ; the foreign exchange reserves have gone and the World Bank has suspended funding on projects . 
I was astonished to hear the speech just given by my colleague from the Greens . 
Yet out of despair comes resolution , determination and hope . 
The country is one of the most educated in Africa and the European Union should be proud of its role in helping to set up that educational support structure in the past 20 years . 
It has a functioning civic institution and culture . 
Elections are due and voter rolls are being prepared but those voter rolls must be verified before the election . 
The opposition parties want more transparency . 
Twenty people have been killed and more than 1 200 farms illegally occupied . 
Mr Mugabe has lost control of the country , presiding over lawlessness and corruption . 
On 24 June elections are going to be held . 
Yesterday , the Commonwealth Secretary-General said that it is still possible to have free elections . 
One thing we must do is to change the culture that is prevalent in Africa today that the winner takes all . 
Mr President it is a measure of the effectiveness and importance of this legislation that even in the midst of a comprehensive series of reforms of race relations legislation in my own country , we have a situation where further improvements can be made . 
I was going to make a speech of the normal variety , but having heard some of the responses across the House , I want to change what I was going to say , which is more in sorrow than in anger . 
This House should recognise and change its tone on what it sees as Article 13 . 
One is that we create a level playing field through Article 13 . 
The burden of proof , the ability for organisations to take cases on behalf of individuals who have been harassed or discriminated against - all of these laws do not create an advantage for the majority of society . 
They create the opportunity for people of talent and ability to release their talents and abilities to enrich what we have in Europe to create wealth , to create the culture and diversity of Europe , not to suffer disadvantage for small - and medium-sized enterprises or anyone else . 
We must start talking positively about these proposals mainly because the Commission and the Portuguese Presidency , many who have created this report , many of my colleagues who have worked hard on their opinions , have responded in the way that we have because we understand that this legislation is not about victims , it is about enriching EU countries . 
Many of those EU countries represented in this House do not pick and choose which race-relation legislation they have - they have none , many of them . 
We have some - we can improve ours . 
It is now an opportunity , a symbolic opportunity and an important practical opportunity for this House to make an historic judgement , to vote in full during a presidency which has helped us bring forward a law which I believe will enrich this House and that we , in time , will be very proud of . 
Mr President , the resolution initiated by my colleagues , Mr Van Orden and Mr Deva , concerns a matter that is highly topical and most urgent even though this is the first occasion on which Parliament has devoted time to the tragic conflict in Sri Lanka which has been going on for over 17 years . 
This legitimate interest should not interfere with the work that has already been carried out by the Indian and Norwegian governments whose representatives have been engaged for some time now in the difficult and sensitive task of brokering negotiations . 
I know that in spite of the dreadful atrocities that have been committed against the civil population and against members of successive administrations , the Sri Lankan government at the highest levels is willing to enter into negotiations and is setting no conditions . 
The international community , including the EU , should be ready to provide substantial material support in due course for whatever solution is worked out and to assist the economic and social reconstruction of the country after so many years of conflict . 
There is no excuse for the indiscriminate acts of murder and mayhem carried out by the so-called Tamil Tigers against children and ordinary civilians going about their daily business and against democratically elected politicians . 
This is an attack on civilised society and the democratic institutions which we all value so highly . 
Inevitably , the people most effected and most helpless in these situations are the nationals of the target country who have fled the conflict and are trying to lead new lives in Europe . 
These people are most vulnerable to threats and intimidation from organisations acting on behalf of terrorists such as the Tamil Tigers . 
I commend the resolution on Sri Lanka to this House . 
Mr President , there is no question in my mind that we all want to see the eradication of hooliganism in football at a European level and globally . 
However , we must be careful not to do so in a manner that would restrict the enjoyment of the real supporters . 
The issue must , therefore , be discussed at a European level , and we should guard against becoming embroiled in local discussions on the capacity and safety of specific stadiums , wherever they might be . 
We must ask ourselves why measures taken in the past have repeatedly failed to create a culture of enjoyment in football for everybody . 
I welcome the dialogue under way now between the Commission and sports and football clubs on how matters could improve . 
The people who run the game are the people who , through constructive dialogue , will eventually be able to find answers to the blight of hooliganism and , it must be said , racism affecting this most popular of all sports . 
- The EPLP voted for the resolution on the Santa Maria de Feira European Council on 19 and 20 June 2000 but does not support paragraph 19 . 
The UK Government position , which is supported by the EPLP , is that it is better to allow this type of negotiation to be undertaken by the works councils . 
It is our belief that it would be more effective to advance the status of the European Companies Statute . 
Mr President , the rapporteur has already explained the SAB is asking to approve two separate sums of money . 
I hope that these sums have been arrived at after taking good account of the principles of budgetary prudence and value for money . 
The political decision to approve the building for Mr Solana and the 45 military personnel had already been taken by the fifteen Member States at Helsinki . 
I would like to raise three issues about this . 
Secondly , I understand there is a gentlemen 's agreement according to which the European Parliament and the Council agreed not to interfere with each other 's budget . 
I believe this has been pushed to its limit . 
The Council 's interpretation of the gentlemen 's agreement is certainly imaginative . 
The agreement applies to buildings and Council staff but not necessarily to seconded military personnel , whose salary comes from their own Member State . 
However their overheads would be paid for by the EU in the future with no real monitoring or accountability role by any institution . 
Thirdly , I am not satisfied with the use of the SAB as an instrument for this because these extra needs were foreseen prior to the conclusion of the budgetary process last year and should have been incorporated in this year 's budget . 
In accordance with the spirit of the gentlemen 's agreement , I will not comment on the need for 45 military personnel in the building . 
That will surely be as safe as Fort Knox . 
The point I wish to raise here is that Council must apply the same sort of budgetary rigour to its administrative expenditure as it expects of other institutions . 
And I would like some reassurance in the future that this expenditure will be spent in the most efficient and economic way possible . 
On Parliament 's request for the extra 15 million for the additional advance payment for the new building in Brussels , although it can be identified as a prudent step which will allow considerable savings in the future , I am concerned about the messages that this may convey . 
I believe it is crucial for Parliament to introduce activity-based budgeting as a matter of utmost urgency . 
All too often Eurocontrol is used as the scapegoat and is blamed for the present situation , but the real blame must lie with the inaction of national governments in the areas that I have outlined . 
It is quite clear that the European Transport Council must take immediate action to ensure that the air traffic control decisions are applied by all Member States Europe-wide . 
It should be remembered that Eurocontrol is the only pan-European institution in the air traffic management domain and must be supported . 
Finally , one issue that was raised - the critical shortage of manpower to the tune of 1,000 air traffic controllers throughout Europe - needs to be urgently addressed by national governments . 
That in itself will go a long way to improving flow control . 
In addition , both airports and airlines need to look closely at their practices , as they too are responsible far too often for the high percentage of delays incurred . 
Madam President , my comments will be on the question of Fiji . 
Some days ago , a number of ethnic Fijian Indians representing that community and the Indian diaspora who are concerned about these conflicts came to the Parliament . 
It was a model for a constitution for a multi-racial society and a thriving island . 
Clearly the lawlessness and violence has undermined that constitution but we must look more deeply at the causes of the conflict . 
This House has to ensure that in those countries where we give aid we monitor the breakdown of law and order and look at the interests of those ethnic minorities who are in danger . 
The concerns expressed are very real . 
We have the ability to suspend aid if we believe that there is something going wrong in Fiji . 
Myself and Glenys Kinnock and other colleagues who have met with the ethnic Indian community want to help them find a solution to this conflict . 
Mr President , Mrs Lambert and Mrs Ghilardotti are right . 
Since the 1998 budget crisis which saw the freezing of funds destined for NGO work with some of the most vulnerable people in Europe and the developing world , much progress has been made . 
The Portuguese presidency broke new ground and invited the European aid platform to the Lisbon informal social affairs summit and the French presidency is following suit . 
These kinds of initiatives were recognised in the conclusions of the Lisbon summit . 
But words are not enough and two years after the 1998 budget crisis , the difficulties continue . 
Meanwhile NGOs , and I worked in the NGO field , are being squeezed by bureaucratic rules which were introduced to promote accountability and transparency but which in the end have created more red tape . 
The troubles of NGOs Mr President are further compounded by this House when it makes difficult rules on co-finance requirements which are set with the tightest deadlines . 
The one budget line that we had - B3-4101 has been scrapped and the Commission has failed to come up with a proposal for a legal base for the civil dialogue either through suggesting a Council regulation or a Treaty article . 
Worse , the social NGOs have been told by the Commission that they will need to be funded through our new discrimination and social exclusion budget lines . 
How can that be when the funds for those programmes have been reduced beyond what is reasonable ? 
A number of valuable social NGOs are facing serious crises because of the inaction of the Commission and the Council . 
I saw one NGO which made an application for projects requiring eighty pages of budget sheets and so many supporting papers that one NGO application weighed over twelve kilos . 
Mr President , that has to change . 
NGOs are critical to our work and we must support them . 
Mr President , on Monday , in my absence and without any prior notification , Mr Murphy , the leader of the British Socialist Group , raised a question about my involvement in supporting the Danish anti-euro campaign . 
He was very careful not to accuse me of anything but has none the less contrived to give the impression that I am somehow under suspicion . 
I should like to put on record that my involvement with the Danish referendum has been entirely separate from my work in this House and that I have never infringed any parliamentary rules . 
Unlike the Danish `` yes '' campaign , the `` no '' campaign can not rely on taxpayers ' money or subsidies from the European Union . 
It is outrageous that Mr Murphy should have sought to give the impression that I am under investigation when he has failed to produce evidence or even make any allegations against me . 
It can not be right for Members to be subjected to this kind of baseless innuendo . 
I would ask you to insist that Mr Murphy either accuse me outright or apologise . 
Mr President , I should like to begin by saying that all Members of this House care deeply about the environment despite the fact that the rapporteur and members of the Greens would have you believe otherwise . 
Environmental concerns must , however , be balanced against the needs of the aviation industry to ensure its success in the future . 
I was disappointed with the report from the Commission , not least because it was so negative towards aviation . 
Unfortunately this has been built upon by the rapporteur . 
I would like to assist honourable Members by pointing out the following information : air transport is responsible for generating 25 million direct jobs world-wide . 
In the United Kingdom alone aviation is responsible for supporting nearly 500 000 jobs . 
The United Kingdom transports GBP 35 billion worth of exports , maintaining unrivalled access to global markets and contributes around GBP 3 billion per annum to the exchequer . 
If multiplied by the number of countries in the European Union one can see and understand just how important this industry is to our economies . 
In terms of environmental impact , aviation uses less than 8 % of the land required for rail and less than 1 % required for road use . 
In practical terms , aside from maritime transport , aviation is the only form of international transport now transporting a third of all goods world-wide . 
Over the past 15 years CO2 emissions have declined by 70 % and unburned hydrocarbons by 85 % . 
Aviation is responsible for just 2.5 % of CO2 emissions . 
Short-term measures are available , such as tackling the 44 % air traffic flow management delays and 30 bottlenecks which take place over France , Italy , Spain and parts of Germany . 
National governments must take action now . 
They should also tackle land planning around existing airports and take responsibility for their decisions in the past . 
To suggest that either a tax on kerosene , which is internationally exempt from tax for the aviation industry , or VAT on tickets or aircraft purchases is the answer is incorrect . 
The industry already pays all its infrastructure charges , some of which go towards environmental improvements . 
It is not subsidised . 
Finally , if Mrs Lucas ' proposals were passed , they would decimate the aviation industry : aviation , tourism , businesses and the aerospace industry . 
Their supporters would love to abolish cheap flights . 
In short , they would make Europe uncompetitive and give Americans and overseas carriers an unfair advantage . 
I would hope in future the proposals from the Commission are thought through more carefully . 
Otherwise its members may find that flying to or from Brussels or Strasbourg or on holiday , for that matter , with a European carrier may not be an option . 
Mr President , I welcome this document and fully support the European Parliament and Council decision to promote cooperation and quality evaluation in school education . 
I particularly welcome the emphasis on social inclusion . 
Education is an important , indeed crucial , part of society . 
Our education has an impact on all our lives and our communities as well . 
Recent reports , as those of us from the UK are aware , have tended to criticise the teaching of children at a very young age as this could prove damaging . 
It would therefore be good to compare and contrast with other European models , within limits of course , as my colleague Mrs Lambert has already stressed . 
Spain , for example , attaches great importance to social inclusion and developing personalities , working in teams ; integrating . 
These are placed higher on the agenda than academia and at an early age . 
I also fully agree with better integration between parents , pupils and teachers and the many community players who rightly want to play a role in education and its development and achieve , as a result , the idea of the school as the community . 
It will also provide an excellent opportunity to encourage schools in the different regions to share in good practices . 
Partnerships between different countries are so important , as indeed are partnerships not only between countries but between rural and urban links . 
This is part of a very important twinning concept and philosophy that is well established in Europe and is proving such a success throughout all our communities . 
Networking is so important . 
I stress that the sharing of good practices and the sharing of information between the different schools in Europe should not develop into a competitive practice . 
We should at all costs discourage any attempt to create European league table of schools similar to that in the UK that has proved so detrimental . 
I welcome the report , it is a positive paper and one that we can build on to create better educational networks within the European Union . 
Mr President , I also commend Mr Parish for his hard work and the excellent report . 
In the brief time I have I wish to stress that one of the greatest difficulties facing young farmers entering the business today is capital and cash-flow problems in the first year of operation . 
I am backing this proposal because young people must be given the opportunity to come into the industry on a sound financial footing . 
After all , young farmers hold the key to the future of all our rural communities . 
The lack of young people entering the agricultural industry in the UK is a very worrying problem . 
Statistics show that in Ireland 14.8 % of farm owners are under 35 , in France the figure is 13.2 % , but in the UK it is a mere 6.8 % . 
Farming and the viability of farming is the life blood of the future of our rural communities as we know them . 
If all small businesses - which includes farmers - were to employ just one more person each , then the whole unemployment situation throughout the European Union would be solved overnight . 
Of all the European Union countries , only the UK and the Netherlands do not operate a specific aid scheme for young farmers . 
European rural development regulations allow a grant of EUR 16 500 to be made available for people under 40 years of age to establish themselves in a viable farm holding . 
Yet the Labour government in the UK has not taken advantage of this excellent scheme . 
I therefore fully support making installation aids mandatory across the European Union . 
The farming industry needs young blood in order to inject a new vibrancy into an industry which at present is aged and disillusioned . 
Young farmers are the future of the farming industry and vital components in urban communities . 
Mr President , as mentioned in 1989 , the Council and the Commission agreed that they had to address the harmonisation of the regulatory framework applicable to civil aviation in order to maintain a high level of safety and to ensure fair competition in the internal market . 
Hence , the Community adopted Council Regulation 3922/91 . 
This regulation listed a number of technical requirements - JARs - produced by the Joint Aviation Authority . 
It was not the purpose of this regulation to re-open a debate on the substance of JAR : the purpose was to ensure harmonisation . 
In addition , it should be recognised that JAR-OPS has been implemented on a national basis and is applicable to European countries outside the EU . 
Therefore changes must be kept to a minimum as there can not be two different sets of operational regulations in force across Europe . 
The Commission 's original proposal highlighted four areas which were found to be incompatible in EU law : exemptions , leasing , registration and cabin crew training . 
Unfortunately , the debate so far has centred on cabin baggage and flight time limitations for flight crew . 
On the first point - cabin baggage - the amendments are anti-competitive and can not apply to third-country carriers . 
Sufficient regulation is already in place , which does not allow on board hand baggage which can not be safely stowed - I can vouch for that as a cabin crew member for 26 years . 
On my second point - flight time limitations , which are already highly regulated and agreed through national governments - civil aviation is now included in working time regulation . 
Irrespective of the decision taken on 1 May , this issue would have to be referred back to national governments for further discussion . 
It is not for Parliament to legislate on flight time limitations . 
Finally , I believe that in future safety and highly technical reports such as this should be subject to a simplified procedure in order to process necessary changes more speedily . 
Madam President , thank you very much for that message of condolence , which is what I wanted to talk about concerning India . 
I welcome the emphasis the document puts on linguistic and cultural diversity and the important contribution of the written word to the development of culture in the different European regions . 
Seeing that there is much emphasis on linguistic and cultural diversity I trust that references in the report to ` all languages ' encompasses lesser used languages . 
E-publishing is especially important for books with a limited market , academic books and books in lesser-used languages are in this category . 
It is therefore important that the Commission and Council take this into consideration when considering this report . 
The EPLP has voted for the motion for resolution on the free movement of persons , but with an important reservation . 
The EPLP supports the Tampere conclusions that the EU must ensure fair treatment of third-country nationals who legally reside in its territory and recognise that there needs to be a resolution to the situation of Regulation 1408/71/EEC not covering third-country nationals . 
However , the EPLP does not support the view that the legal base should be Article 42 and 308 . 
The EPLP supports the Council and a number of Member States who wish the legal base to remain Article 63 . 
The EPLP has voted for the motion for resolution on the social consequences of restructuring because we believe in partnership in the workplace . 
However , we have reservations on the resolution itself . 
The EPLP supports the view of the Minister that it is inappropriate to have European wide legislation in the area of information and consultation . 
I think the most important lesson is that there is a need to take stringent measures from the outset , firstly , to prevent further outbreaks and , secondly , to ensure that consumer confidence increases . 
Unless safety measures are dramatically increased we can not succeed in restoring consumer confidence , which is critical in the long term to European beef markets . 
I would just like to address the issue that various people such as Mr Mulder and Mrs Haug have raised , namely whether the aid should be the traditional 70/30 split between the EU and the Member States or whether we should go for a 50/50 split . 
Thirdly , if Parliament votes for this new approach the Council will have to have a second reading and this will only serve to prolong the process until a decision is reached , and this goes against our experience in the UK , which is that you must deal with things quickly and speedily to restore consumer confidence , which is vital to beef markets in Europe . 
For these reasons I am against the rapporteur ' s recommendation . 
I do not want to apportion blame about the crisis but I have similar concerns to those outlined by other Members about the approach and length of time it has taken the Commission to attempt to tackle BSE with rigour and determination . 
The Commission should have banned spinal cord from food and human consumption and animal feed once the disease was apparent in the UK . 
The Commission should be undertaking a full and immediate audit of control procedures to prevent contaminated cattle from crossing borders . 
In conclusion I would like to say that I support the request for the SAB and I think it is important we get Member States to take up this aid . 
I would also like to congratulate all three rapporteurs for simplifying reports on a very complicated area . 
For me , the emergence of a fully integrated and liberalised telecommunications market by the end of 2001 is the vital precondition for the transition to a digital knowledge-based economy , which I hope will bring considerable growth to the EU . 
It is essential to note that the consequences of this package will certainly not be restricted to one recipient in particular . 
On the contrary , the new legal framework will serve to enhance competition in this sector . 
This House ' s objective is to encourage incumbents to continue to be major players , yet there is a danger that their over-dominance will discriminate against new entrants , when one of our key priorities is to create a climate in which new entrants are allowed to flourish . 
We are getting the balance right on this issue , and this I hope will actually counter concerns over the mounting debt in this sector at present . 
I am therefore pleased that in the access directive the committee approved the inclusion of mobile networks in the definition , and I am equally pleased that the retail prices of international roaming , which are exorbitant at present , will be transparent and cost-based in future . 
In a sector which is subject to such swift technological change , it is important to ensure that the regime is able to deal with unforeseen issues that might arise in the future . 
The access directive will have the greatest impact on the European consumer as it will lead to lower prices , greater choice and better services . 
At the same time , the new situation will create opportunities for businesses across Europe and especially small businesses . 
Mr President , this report represents a huge missed opportunity . 
I urge Parliament to think about what kind of message we will send to the European tax-payer and the farmers in the candidate countries if we roll over again , as Mr Daul proposes . 
I have no problem with Mr Daul personally rolling over for the sugar producers - as he is one . 
He can roll over as much as he likes , but this Parliament should resist any temptation to roll over the sugar regime yet one more time . 
Why is it that with increasing pressure on farm spending , any real chance to reform the CAP is greeted with a shrug of indifference in this Chamber ? 
This report demonstrates how powerful the farming lobby is , although pressure for reform is mounting , not just from European citizens but also from far-sighted farmers themselves , who recognise that the current regime is clearly unsustainable in the long term . 
It has remained unaltered for 32 years and its highly protectionist nature has kept the EU sugar price at three times the world level , discriminating unfairly against consumers and damaging the competitiveness of the industry . 
We now know that the WTO and enlargement commitments mean that another roll-over would wreck the EU 's international credibility . 
A recent Court of Auditors ' report concluded that the sugar regime leads to substantial costs for the EU budget and for the consumer . 
So what we need is serious , well-thought out reform . 
The long-term ramifications of Mr Daul 's plans to do nothing will mean deeper and deeper quota cuts shrinking the industry and threatening employment . 
We have sadly been bombarded by a series of unfounded claims on storage levy and the ACP , ignoring the fact that the money saved could actually be redirected towards other agricultural expenditure . 
The reason why I voted against the modified proposal was that the report proposed to maintain a system that has not been reviewed for 32 years . 
The CMO for sugar is unsustainable in the long-term given the constraints in Category 1 ( Agriculture budget ) . 
Furthermore , it has major implications for the European taxpayer , for jobs in the food and drink manufacturers and for consumers . 
More importantly , this report rejects improvement in management of the sugar regime of which one small measure was the Commission proposal for the abolition of the storage levy . 
Second , the abolition of the storage levy scheme will inject an element of competition into the highly distorted market . 
This will benefit the sugar-using industry and consumers as well as enabling observers to evaluate the effects of limited competition on the EU sugar sector . 
Finally , the budgetary resources allocated to the system ( EUR 300 million per annum ) could be redirected towards other agricultural expenditure . 
The second principal concern about this report is that Daul 's amendments extended the current regime until 2005-6 contrary to the Commission 's proposal of an interim regime lasting 2 years . 
I am opposed to another five year roll-over . 
The momentum for reform is mounting . 
EU sugar prices are 2.5-3 times the world level . 
Such a system threatens to jeopardise the EU 's credibility in relation to impending enlargement and WTO obligations . 
This report also ignores the conclusions of a recent Court of Auditor 's report denouncing the regime as wasteful and mismanaged and stating that the current system leads to substantial costs for the EU budget and consumer . 
I have a lot of empathy and support for the farming industry , and I know that many of them recognise that serious and considered reform is necessary to ensure that the sugar sector is prepared for the demands of the future . 
By contrast , the consequences of another roll-over would be deeper and deeper quota cuts , which would shrink the base of EU industry and lead to unemployment . 
Similarly , artificially high prices can not be sustained . 
At lunch they told me very calmly : ` We are here but when we go back we are going to be arrested and killed . 
We have passed our sell-by date : we were supposed to have been killed two weeks ago . ' 
But is that the way we react ? 
We need to do something about it . 
There is now something called the Joint Parliamentary Assembly of the ACP and EU , the only parliamentary assembly in the world which does not look at a budget . 
It is quite ridiculous that this state of affairs should be allowed to continue . 
Another thing I would like to mention is information technology and sustainable energy in the development budget . 
Transport and communication has been old-fashioned stuff that has been put in the budget year after year , but there are new technologies that we also need to take into account . 
Finally , a global fund for the combating of Aids needs to be considered in our budget . 
Just asking the chemical companies and pharmaceutical companies to cut prices is not enough . 
Mr President , I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on establishing a clear set of priorities . 
I particularly welcome the emphasis on food safety and consumer confidence and improving the implementation of the EU budget . 
However , speaking on behalf of the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy , I have to express my concern at the absence of any major areas of this committee 's priorities in these guidelines . 
The committee 's opinion has been appended but I would urge the rapporteur and the Commissioner to accord the following areas greater emphasis during this year 's budgetary process . 
First , the funding for the information society does not really correspond to the importance attached to it by the Heads of State or Government when it was launched with much fanfare at Lisbon . 
If we are to really connect the EU to its citizens , we must put our money where our mouth is . 
We need to recognise that this is where the future of new European jobs lies . 
However , the EU , and more importantly the EU budget , has never taken this on board . 
We also have to address the issue of the possibility of the emergence of a digital divide in Europe . 
I therefore urge the Commissioner to seize the initiative to ensure that the resources are enhanced to allow the information society to conform to the principle of equality , in terms of both accessibility and opportunity . 
My second point relates to energy . 
It is clear that we are too dependent on external resources . 
What we must do is enhance Europe 's renewable energy capacity . 
We must avoid a situation similar to last year where industry across Europe was brought to a standstill by a small group of people . 
Therefore , we need corporate approach looking at alternative sources of energy . 
Mr President , I too want to start by congratulating Mrs Buitenweg both on the report itself and on the way in which she has sought to accommodate and integrate different viewpoints . 
I welcome the emphasis she has put in the adoption of ABB because I believe it is critical to the future transparency of all the EU institutions and will affect how they will work . 
My group particularly welcomes the reference to the assistance statute and the funding for political parties . 
I also wholeheartedly support the emphasis in these guidelines on enlargement and the implications of decisions taken at Nice . 
However , what concerns me is the piecemeal approach taken to date by all the institutions when looking at the budgetary implications of this topic . 
What is needed is the joint comprehensive strategy that this report calls for , encompassing all aspects of enlargement both in the short term and in the longer term . 
It is crucial that we fully anticipate and evaluate the budgetary consequence that enlargement will have on all the institutions , because if we do not we will have difficulty maintaining budgetary discipline and efficiency . 
We have therefore asked for each institution to present a strategy setting out how it sees the impact of enlargement on its services . 
Secondly , I have further concerns about the wisdom of including paragraph 19 in these guidelines because it asks for a full review of all the standing committees at the halfway mark in this Parliament . 
All this will achieve is greater disruption and confusion , and it goes against the level of planning we are asking from all the institutions elsewhere in the report . 
Therefore , I would urge our colleagues in the PPE-DE to withdraw these amendments . 
Mr President , in the wake of the implications of FMD for communities directly and indirectly affected by the outbreak , it is vital that we learn the lessons of the mishandling of the outbreak which has caused such devastating knock-on effects for many sectors of society . 
The consequential loss to those directly and indirectly affected by the disease has so far been enormous : hauliers , abattoirs , tourism , cultural events , schools and the small business sector are all bearing the brunt . 
Farmers whose stock is not affected directly by FMD , but who are unable to move their stock to markets , are also facing massive losses , further exacerbated by the ban on the sale of cattle over 30 months following the BSE crisis . 
Commissioner , I learnt from one of my colleagues last week that if the UK were to offer state aid to those affected by the crisis , this would not contravene European Union competition policy . 
I would appreciate clarification by the Commission on this point . 
We must also call again for the re-establishment of local abattoirs and a reduction in animal transport over long distances , which undoubtedly acted as a catalyst for the rapid spread . 
Mr President , on the Galileo project I would like to seek some clarification from the Commission and the Council on important issues which need to be addressed before the definitive phase of the project can be approved . 
The Memorandum of Understanding signalling the provisional funding from private bodies of EUR 200 million needs further explanation . 
Could the Commission therefore give specific examples of some of the businesses which have agreed to the funding ? 
Could the Commission also confirm reports that unless a firm political decision is taken on the definitive phase by June 2001 , then such engagement of funding by private industry will become obsolete ? 
Could the Commission also comment in this regard on the lack of a political commitment to come out of the Stockholm Summit ? 
Surely vague rhetoric will not suffice when billions of euro are at stake and the deadline , according to the Commission 's timetable , is less than three months away ? 
In the interests of transparency , may I call on the Commission to make absolutely clear its intentions with regard to the funding of this project and whether , in the absence of substantial private-sector interest , it will fund the project solely from the EU budget , including the EUR 220 million it will cost to maintain the project per annum ? 
Could the Commission also provide an up-to-date breakdown of the contributions foreseen from individual Member States ? 
On development , is the Commission aware that whilst the EU has been spending millions on Galileo the US has been updating its existing technology ? 
Could the Commission justify why Galileo will only be used for civilian purposes , as it seems absurd that the EU decides to build its own satellite navigation system , yet denies its military capacity ? 
In conclusion , launching satellites is a very expensive business . 
We need firm assurances that investments in the Galileo project will produce an adequate return . 
Fundamental questions and less than three months to go . 
Unless the Commission comes forward immediately with some answers on this project , we in the EU run the risk of appearing amateurish and irresponsible . 
I therefore urge the Commission and Council to consider these points . 
At a cost of billions to the taxpayer , to whom we are directly responsible , we are entitled to some answers . 
Mr President , I want to welcome Mr Miranda 's initiative in asking this question and I want to take this opportunity to congratulate Commissioner Lamy on his splendid initiative on ` Everything but arms ' , which we were associated with in Parliament , but did not have very much to do with . 
It must be pointed out that the poorest and the least developed countries must be given special attention and , in the process , elimination of extreme poverty should be the primary goal . 
According to UNCTAD calculations , while the gross domestic product of 49 LDCs rose by no more than 0.9 % per year in real terms between 1990 and 1998 , worldwide GDP grew by more than 2.5 % per year . 
Good governance is a key issue in the LDCs . 
I would like to take this opportunity to point out that there are many countries which are nominally democratic , but where , owing to their lack of an effective and fair legal system , there is no freedom for their people . 
We in this Parliament should promote the rule of law as an essential criterion when we look at good governance criteria . 
It is a matter of record also that the proportion of our aid budgets that goes to the LDCs has fallen while the proportion that goes to middle-ranking countries , such as Morocco and Algeria , has risen . 
This is absolutely wrong . 
The aid budget must concentrate on the poorest . 
That is what our citizens expect and require . 
Using the aid budget as some sort of underhand immigration policy is wrong . 
Have an anti-immigration policy , by all means , but be honest about it . 
We must not rob the poorest countries to achieve our own political ends . 
Drastic reductions in the debt burden of heavily indebted poor countries are urgently needed as action taken so far under the HIPC initiative will , as a result of falling raw material prices , be completely inadequate for any sustained financial relief . 
I must also stress the need to guarantee funds to be set up or topped up in order to provide incentives for greater private investment and for the implementation of measures to encourage small loan arrangements , such as those introduced by the Gramien Bank in Bangladesh . 
Finally , we must do everything we can to prevent conflict . 
Conflict prevention is a key to helping the LDCs grow . 
Mr Byers stated that for the UK , `` our whole system of corporate structures is quite different from that on the continent . 
However , in many respects , the directive reflects the continental system of corporate governance , not that in the United Kingdom . 
Mr President , I am delighted to hear what the Commissioner has said about working closely with the United Nations . 
Some of the United Nations programmes which deliver on the ground are very effective , and sometimes more effective , than what the European Union has been doing so far . 
I want to ask two questions : first , what level of complementarity are you looking at when the Commission is trying to set an arrangement in place to work with the United Nations , or are we merely going to give the United Nations the money they require and they will do the delivery on the floor ? 
This is a point that has taken prominence in Indonesia and in the Jaffna area of Sri Lanka where the UNHCR has been doing an excellent job in trying to rehabilitate and give support to people . 
The second question is really more broadly addressed to Parliament : are we going to set up a permanent standing liaison committee of MEPs involved with development and cooperation to report to the General Assembly of the United Nations each year on our joint cooperation ? 
Mr President , I welcome the paper on the e-Learning initiative and congratulate the rapporteur on its content . 
E-Learning is becoming increasingly important . 
Therefore preparing for the use of information and communication technologies is becoming increasingly important . 
But my concern is that once teachers return to their respective schools they return to find that very little ICT facilities are available for them . 
More often than not they find that they can not communicate the knowledge acquired through training courses back to the children and make use of ICT in their classes because of lack of resources . 
Without the necessary tools to meet the aims of the e-Learning agenda , the goals of the Lisbon Summit will not be achieved . 
Having no direct jurisdiction over education in the Member States , how will the Commission ensure that these goals are being met and that Member States ' governments will provide schools with the necessary equipment to realise these aims ? 
Another problems is that technology is advancing at such a rate that it has become necessary to update computer equipment every few years . 
This has been , and will be , an added problem for schools working within very tight budgets . 
It is equally important to make training and education in the information society available to all individuals throughout their lives to realise job opportunities and for personal development as well . 
This is important and reflects the trend and the decrease in heavy industries in favour of the service industries which rely heavily on digitally-literate personnel . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I am delighted to follow Mr Dell ` Alba and particularly Mr van Hulten ; while I do not share his political aspirations , I recognise his ability as a young person who one day will probably lead the European Union to great heights . 
I also recognise that budgetary discipline is based on certain principles : unity , annuality , equilibrium , unit of account , universality , and specification . 
However the external budget also requires transparency , because our external budget is constantly exposed to corruption . 
There are many practical problems which we have to look at in the external budget . 
We have an annual programme which does not work consistently in terms of output targets . 
Second , output targets are not measured in terms of external budgets so that we do not finally know what we have done with our taxpayers ' money . 
We can never come back to Parliament and report on what has happened with our taxpayers ' money . 
Third , the external budget is constantly underspent while those in need suffer poverty , malnutrition , hunger , disease , underdevelopment and loss of education and life-quality opportunities . 
Yet , rather than return the funds which are predicted at the beginning of the budget to be unspent - which could then be returned back to Member States who could spend that money more effectively - we keep this money for more than three years and then overspend it . 
I want to be proud of what we do . 
I want the world to recognise that we make a substantial contribution . 
I want our development assistance programme to be the best in the world . 
We have a long way to go before we achieve that . 
Mr President , the establishment of formal reporting systems is clearly a requirement of Annex VI to the Chicago Convention on International Civil Aviation . 
The United Kingdom has a long-standing mandatory reporting scheme , MORS , currently established under Article 117 of the Air Navigation Order and administered by the CAA . 
There are several established systems for the interchange of safety data for analysis , such as JAA , EUROCONTROL , etc. , as well as legal ICAO requirements . 
I would suggest that any EU initiative be compatible with the proven effective systems in place . 
The lists of examples of reportable occurrences may need to be addressed . 
As it stands , the proposal could become over-regulated , difficult to manage and have no added safety benefit . 
Bypassing their own company structures would weaken the internal reporting processes that have been built up over the years . 
My final point refers to Article 8 , which appears to go too far by establishing a totally blame-free reporting system . 
This would need to be amended as there could be circumstances in which gross negligence is involved . 
My own experience over a number of years has shown that confidential reporting works extremely well . 
However , in such a safety-sensitive industry , it is important that all employees follow the strict rules , regulations and practices that are laid down . 
I would like to thank Mr Collins for producing a comprehensive report . 
It was a great pleasure to work with him . 
I believe that we have now reached a sensible conclusion and would hope that the amendments adopted in committee , which address those concerns , can be supported in the plenary vote . 
Honourable Members , I am in no doubt that all of us here welcome initiatives to enhance safety , but they must be well thought through and beneficial to the entire aviation industry and the public at large . 
It also recognises , importantly , the need to improve and to monitor the democratic legitimacy and transparency of the Union and its institutions . 
In December 2001 , the Belgian presidency will be concluded by a contribution to this debate at the Laeken Declaration . 
Will the Laeken Declaration recognise that a further democratisation of the European decision-making process calls for a more radical reform with legislative power vested in two chambers : the European Parliament , and a reformed Council that would subsume some aspects of the present Committee of the Regions and would strongly enhance the role of the constitutional regions ? 
Mr President , I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur . 
As she said , this report is important because it aims to help uprooted people , in other words , refugees , displaced persons and returnees in Asia and Latin America . 
Speaking on behalf of the Committee on Budgets , I would like to emphasise the need to approve this programme immediately so that we do not lose the appropriations for this year . 
Parliament has always been in favour of having a separate action for uprooted people on the basis of the unique circumstances facing them , as outlined by the rapporteur . 
I have some reservations about the function performed by the management committee . 
My opinion includes an amendment replacing the management committee with a consultative committee in order to enable the Commission to exercise more adequately its responsibility for implementing the budget . 
One of my main concerns is that the legal base for these actions expired at the end of December 2000 . 
I do not know why the Commission left this new proposal so late , especially when we only had a one-year extension granted in 1999 . 
I have yet to find an adequate response to that . 
If we want to improve the spending on this appropriation , it is not acceptable for the Commission to submit each and every project to a committee . 
It is important that the committee should concentrate more on annual work plans and look at ex-post evaluation . 
Finally , in these particular lines , the Commission has not included a reference amount in the legislation . 
This is wholly justifiable as the nature of the programme dictates that any attempt to anticipate future needs will prove futile . 
I recommend we approve this report . 
Mr President , I am very pleased as shadow rapporteur to commend this report to Parliament and to congratulate Mrs Carrilho on an excellent report . 
Last year I was the rapporteur for this report when we extended the budget line for a few more months . 
I am also pleased that the Commissioner is here this morning to reply to the debate because I want to talk to him about a big idea . 
Are we not in a rather curious position ? 
On the one hand we have asylum-seekers coming to Europe and seeking help , shelter and aid and , on the other , we have displaced people living in camps in countries such as Afghanistan and right throughout the world . 
These are the same people and we need to make that connection : the people who come here are actually the same sort of people who are living in camps . 
If we can help them to be resettled , then we are not only helping them fundamentally but we are also helping to alleviate a problem that is growing in Europe . 
My big idea is nothing to do with this , however . 
It is about the Montevideo Convention . 
I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he could envisage a new approach ? 
Yet we all recognise each country as an equal sovereign nation . 
I find it very curious that on the one hand when we give aid , we treat people with a certain measure of circumspection , but when we recognise the national sovereignty of a country we apply the Montevideo Convention and say they are all sovereign . 
When the British ran the British Empire , particularly The Raj , they had a habit of giving gun salutes to different Maharajas and Rajas depending on how they behaved . 
It is time that we looked at how we recognise what we call national sovereignty and how we treat so-called independent nations . 
We need to differentiate between countries and presidents and governments that are democratic and behave in a civilised way and countries that are dictatorial or brutal . 
Then we can give different levels of ` gun salutes ' to the latter countries so that we do not treat everybody in the same way . 
Mr President , the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is one of access , control and trade in key mineral resources . 
The wealth of the country is appealing to its greedy neighbours . 
All six nations involved in this conflict share responsibility for their illegal actions , as must those in other countries who have helped this profiteering . 
Is long-term regional instability a price worth paying for short-term theft ? 
Alongside plundering , looting and racketeering by foreign armies , criminal cartels see the DRC as a weak link . 
The United National panel of experts warns : `` These criminal cartels have ramifications and connections worldwide and they represent the next serious security problem in the region '' . 
I would like to ask the Commissioner what the difference is between Milosevic ethnically cleansing his neighbours and African leaders looting and killing 2.5 million of their Congolese neighbours ? 
When can we see some of these leaders sitting in the dock in The Hague ? 
I see no difference between one sort of killing and another , expect that one is white and the other black . 
When the final United Nations findings are published , the EU and the UN should respond by considering freezing financial assets of rebel movements and of the leaders of criminal cartels and foreign powers that do not withdraw . 
We , in the centre right of Parliament , want firm action to prevent the DRC 's destruction . 
The irony is that the wealth stolen from the Congolese could provide the foundations for real long-term regional growth and stability . 
This needs African leaders to lay down their guns , however . 
With our historic connections with Africa - particularly during the Belgian Presidency - there is a real opportunity for something to be done very soon . 
Mr President , I should like to congratulate Mr Collins on his report , which I believe brings a sensible compromise to the Commission 's proposal . 
As aviation is the most regulated form of transport , I welcome the commitment by the industry , as agreed in Lisbon in May , to implement the voluntary passenger service commitment . 
This is undoubtedly the best way forward as over-regulation would be extremely damaging to the aviation industry Europe-wide , and in particular in the United Kingdom , and would result in our being uncompetitive . 
I hope the Commission will resist in bringing forward legislative proposals as it is only right and proper that the industry should be given sufficient time to implement fully this agreement . 
On one tiny point here from Mr Collins : the UK is the only country which has in place a minimum seat pitch requirement for safety reasons and I therefore believe that the European Union could follow that example . 
Turning to the Schmitt Report , we should congratulate Mr Schmitt on clarifying and improving the Commission 's proposals , although I still have deep reservations in a number of areas . 
Nevertheless I believe that there is general agreement that a pan-European body is required in particular in the area of aircraft manufacture , although there is still ambiguity in relation to ICAO rules , which clearly state that both individual certification of aircraft and design changes and modifications are the responsibility of states of registering . 
Finally despite asking the Commission on a number of occasions , we are still unclear as to the future role of national civil aviation authorities , the JAA , as the proposed regulation does not define its parameters . 
In addition , I believe at this stage efforts should be concentrated on achieving uniform applicability of ICAO , JAA , and Eurocontrol standards that are already in existence . 
The EC should not seek to parallel and create unwilling distortions of the current ICAO-based safety framework . 
I look forward to the Commission 's response . 
Mr President , just a quick question to the Commissioner : we have stated on a number of occasions in the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism that we are still unclear as to the future role of the national civil aviation authorities and the JAA as the proposed regulation does not define its parameters . 
I would be very grateful for the Commission 's response . 
It may not be possible this evening , but I would like more clarification on that area . 
Mr President , I welcome all these reports but will concentrate this morning on the Bösch report , highlighting the very important work carried out by the Ombudsman which goes some way to respecting the idea of transparency and open governance . 
This will hopefully show citizens that Europe 's institutions do endeavour to act in the interests of its people and that cases of maladministration will always be punished . 
Of course the Ombudsman 's powers are limited , but I am happy that the report demonstrates that the Ombudsman does his utmost in most cases in the name of fair play . 
The bulk of the Ombudsman 's report consists of a thorough account of the complaints made to him about maladministration by the European institutions , the investigations his office has carried out and the action taken , including , of course , the results . 
However many complaints addressed to the Ombudsman still concern actions by national authorities , for which the European Ombudsman is not competent , and many complaints prove not to merit any action . 
The number of cases where the Ombudsman 's intervention has proved successful for the complainant shows that the Ombudsman has developed efficient ways of ensuring that the European institutions comply with his recommendations . 
The Ombudsman 's special reports , based on his right to own-initiative inquiry , make an important contribution to the interpretation and development of Community law . 
I particularly welcome the fact that , in connection with the drafting of the Charter of Fundamental Rights , the Ombudsman has strongly urged that the Charter recognise the citizen 's right to an open , accountable and service-minded administration . 
Community bodies have a duty to shape Community policies and law in a way which is beneficial and comprehensible to citizens . 
Mr President , the United Kingdom is largely outside the provisions of the Schengen acquis . 
The policy of the British Conservatives towards Schengen is therefore rather like our policy towards the euro . 
We wish our neighbours and allies well , but it is not our businesses to tell them how to run initiatives which we have no intention of joining ourselves . 
Accordingly , as is becoming traditional on these occasions , my party will be abstaining . 
There is another matter which is becoming traditional on these occasions . 
No report on Schengen is complete without a ritual complaint about the failure of the United Kingdom and the Irish Republic to take part . 
Thus , in Mr Coelho 's otherwise admirable report , we have paragraph 2 , which in a somewhat brusque tone calls on those two states to abolish their border controls . 
The British government took the view that if other states wished to go ahead on their own using the institutions and mechanisms of the European Communities then it was not Britain 's place to hinder them . 
Accordingly , it allowed the other states to push ahead within the treaties , but only subject to a clear guarantee that the UK 's own border controls would not be affected . 
That guarantee was written in black and white into the Amsterdam Treaty . 
No sooner had Amsterdam come into force however , than the European Commission and Parliament began to question the opt-out . 
Not for the first time , the UK had allowed other states to use the common procedures of the European treaties only for those states promptly to start clamouring for Britain 's inclusion . 
As with Schengen , so with the social chapter and so with economic and monetary union - in all three cases Britain consented to a new EU initiative on the clear understanding that it would not be affected , only for its derogation later to be disputed . 
This surely is no way for the Union to proceed . 
After all if opt-outs are no longer legally reliable , the only alternative is a rather more promiscuous use of the national veto and that I submit would be even more objectionable to the integrationist majority in this House than it is to me . 
Mr President , I would ask Members to ponder one question : is it viable in today 's world for all matters of asylum policy to be decided within the parameters of the Geneva Convention ? 
The Geneva Convention drafted in 1951 was conceived as a temporary measure . 
It was negotiated in a very different world - a world still haunted by the shameful failure of Western countries to offer sanctuary to the victims of European fascism . 
It was designed first and foremost to ensure that refugees from communist tyranny would have access to safe havens . 
But the world has moved on . 
Mass air travel has facilitated unprecedented migratory flows . 
The great majority of those seeking better lives in new countries are actuated by understandable - indeed laudable - economic motives . 
But the terms of the 1951 Convention , and specifically the requirement to assess all claims individually , even if the applicant is manifestly coming from a safe country , encourage economic migrants to seek entry as refugees . 
This clogs the system to the disbenefit of those genuinely fleeing from injustice and wrong . 
I support , as Mr Pirker 's report does , a degree of controlled primary immigration . 
All countries can benefit from the energy and enterprise of people who are prepared to cross whole continents in search of a better future . 
For such a policy to gain public consent it must be fair and transparent and it must be open to account . 
It can not be right for the judiciaries of our Members States , by applying a peculiar interpretation of the 1951 Convention , to operate an immigration policy beyond the control of elected politicians . 
If we want to manage a sustainable policy of legal immigration and , at the same time , protect the rights of those most in need of sanctuary , we must take back control of our asylum laws from the judges . 
Far from enlarging the scope of the Geneva Convention , as Mr Evans suggests , we should scrap this outmoded accord and replace it with something more suited to the modern world . 
Madam President , we are facing a war against terrorism that all freedom-loving people must embrace . 
As you know , I was born in a country that understands terrorism , with 65 000 dead - please remember that the LTT suicide bombers in Sri Lanka are not Muslims - but the world has so far turned a blind eye on twenty-three years of terrorism . 
A cancer that is fed , not by religion , but by greed , hate , envy and ignorance . 
In Afghanistan , the 1963 Constitution as promulgated by King Zahir Shah is an exemplary document . 
I salute my colleague , Edward McMillan-Scott , for taking the initiative to lead a delegation to Rome to initiate a coalition between the King and the Northern Alliance , which I am happy to say has now been signed , as General Morillon has just mentioned . 
I want to congratulate General Morillon on inviting Shah Masood here , so that in April we had a chance to meet him . 
The 1963 Constitution states that liberty is a natural right of each human being - this right has no limitations except the liberty of others , but freedom of thought and expression is invaluable - that every Afghan has a right to print and publish ideas , that education is a right of every Afghan and shall be provided , free of charge , by the State , and that work is a right of every Afghan who has the capability to do it . 
What a far cry this is from the tragedy existing in Afghanistan today , where women are beaten , denied education , kept at home as slaves and with one in eight dying in childbirth . 
It is a State run by ignorance using the stick of religion , of which they know little , to cower and terrorise their own people . 
The war against terrorism is a war to free the people of Afghanistan from the twenty-eight years of slavery . 
I salute President Bush and the British Prime Minister for their determination - shoulder-to-shoulder with a Democratic Party and Ian Duncan Smith , the leader of the Conservative Party who was here in Parliament today - to defeat and eradicate international terrorism . 
But this must not be a purely Anglo-Saxon affair . 
If the EU and this House are to be anything at all , they must have an involvement in ensuring this most basic of human activities ; the right to live without being terrorised , the freedom to live without the daily sudden threat of death . 
We should not think that we in Europe are not targets . 
We already know of plans to attack Genoa , Paris and elsewhere . 
When will we learn that is our war too ? 
Mr President , at the heart of my political group 's approach to the Durban conference is a renewed determination to tackle racism and to discover what was positive about this conference . 
I say renewed because racism in its many forms has reared its head again , with the tragic events in New York and Washington . 
We have now a danger that a renewed wave of Islamophobia and anti-Semitism will come if we do not tackle racism and its root causes . 
That illustrated the tragedy of this conference , because I felt I attended two conferences . 
One was a historic conference where delegations , like our own European Union delegation , were determined to register that racism is a major human rights issue . 
We were determined to define for the first time racism in its many international forms , whether caste , a contemporary slavery , or whether discrimination against minorities within our own European Union and indeed the candidate countries . 
We were determined to do something about racism , to show that with Article 13 we in the European Union had something to say to the rest of the world about how we were approaching our own problems . 
Yet there was a second conference that I attended , full of confusion , of individual national agendas , a determination not to define racism in different countries because of an embarrassment as to what racism represented in those countries . 
We have to be determined that the first conference , with the ideals we as a delegation defined for it , are renewed in this House today . 
That requires a united front . 
It requires us not to just say that Durban was chaotic , therefore we will leave it that way for history . 
Instead , we as a European Union united , the Commission , the Belgian Presidency - which did an excellent job - those who attended the conference and all of us within this House who want to tackle racism must unite to go back to the original agenda . 
The issue is not whether this is a failure or not , it is about whether we can now make it a success by renewed determination within this House to get back to the action programme and make progress . 
Mr President , there are many who believe that this report does not go far enough in analysing the potential problems facing us as we embark on the revision of the Television without frontiers directive , expected in 2002 as we are all aware . 
However , it raises some very important issues and it is important to start that dialogue now . 
My personal concern is the role of public service broadcasters in this important agenda . 
It is important to recognise that today 's public service broadcasting needs to adapt to the changes . 
Today 's radio and TV sector is a competitive one and the market forces which largely govern it can not be ignored . 
Public service broadcasters have a crucial role to play in the digital world . 
Public service broadcasters make programmes of high quality in indigenous languages reflecting indigenous cultures . 
They also have a crucial role to play in encouraging people to use and understand the new digital media . 
I agree with the Commissioner 's statement in a recent communication that broadcasting and culture should remain within the WTO 's services category and that this arrangement should be respected . 
Having established that , we then need to be absolutely certain that there is sufficient scope for national and EU legislation to protect public services and cultural entities . 
Robust and determined early regulatory action will be needed to create the open environment we all seek , and one which is in the real interests of all citizens and economies of Europe . 
Europe has to compete in the digital world where consumers and citizens can wander freely and where competition delivers diversity and choice . 
With its complementary mix then of private and public service broadcasters , the European audiovisual model guarantees pluralism of information , cultural diversity and access for all to information , education , entertainment and the arts . 
I will be voting in favour of the report and look forward very much to the forthcoming debates as we look to the future . 
Mr President , I do not speak for my Group on this matter , but I want to congratulate Mrs Ghilardotti for her hard work in making this directive a reality . 
We have a directive which is essentially a two-way street . 
It must make sense for workers in retail , service and manufacturing industries not to learn about their future through the media , but to work within a positive consultation mechanism making them aware of what will happen to them and their families . 
Workers in my own country at Rover/BMW , Marks & Spencers , in Longbridge , at Corus and Vauxhall - the list is endless - would all benefit from this directive . 
The directive is essentially about the future of work , not the past . 
When closure is inevitable for companies with more than 50 workers , we want to see information and consultation , so that workers are informed , leading to a better level of trust within companies . 
We need realistic thresholds to allow the directive to work well . 
Colleagues , information and consultation has been a very difficult directive . 
There have been a number of compromise amendments . 
We are very happy with the way in which those discussions have progressed . 
It is clear that some Member States will continue to have problems with certain aspects of this directive . 
We must work together to ensure that in conciliation we reach the stage where information and consultation are embraced by both sides of business and industry . 
Mr President , I am going to combine my time as rapporteur for the Committee on Industry and spokesperson for the Socialists on the other institutions . 
Firstly , I congratulate both the rapporteurs for successfully completing the mammoth budgetary task , and also the chairman of the committee , Mr Wynn , for getting through the votes in record time . 
Speaking on behalf of the Committee on Industry , I am disappointed with the outcomes in this budget because many of the priorities which we highlighted have been totally ignored . 
Let me single out three issues . 
The e-Europe initiative , launched with much fanfare at Lisbon , highlighted how it would increase the competitiveness of European industry ; increase employment opportunities ; and acknowledge that a knowledge society is indisputably a fundamental prerequisite for future economic prosperity . 
The extension of e-Europe to the applicant countries was again much heralded at Stockholm , but we are proposing not to extend this programme . 
I would like to remind everybody that the Council and Parliament confirmed e-Europe as a priority . 
By not supporting it we are undermining one of Europe 's priority programmes and this will be to the detriment of the applicant countries . 
We need to ensure , as the rapporteur stated , that rhetoric is matched by action , that the EU citizen is not left to ponder . 
We have all these programmes ; they are acclaimed ; and then they seem to dissipate into thin air ! 
Here we have a proposal to decrease the funding for the coming year . 
An environmentally-friendly European energy policy is at the top of most people 's agendas and it is important that Europe leads the way in our Kyoto obligations . 
Therefore , to reduce programmes that promote sustainable energy consumption and impact on climate protection is extremely short-sighted . 
This is even more critical in the light of the recent atrocities of 11 September and to ensure that states have a proper strategy for dismantling chemical weapons so that there are no opportunities for these weapons to fall into the wrong hands . 
I would urge the rapporteur to rethink and support these amendments . 
This year , as she said , Heading 5 was under tremendous pressure for a number of reasons , including the preparation for the forthcoming enlargement . 
My group 's efforts have been to continue to improve effectiveness , efficiency and transparency . 
As far as Parliament is concerned , these are not just hollow words , but words of substance . 
We have demonstrated our commitment to improving efficiency by staying under Parliament 's 20 % self-imposed ceiling , whilst absorbing the costs of preparations for enlargement of some EUR 18 million . 
However , this will be extremely difficult in the coming years . 
I would urge the Council to address this , so that the costs associated with the proposed enlargement are dealt with before we commence the budgetary procedure next year . 
Furthermore , I welcome the three-year enlargement plan that the Bureau has approved . 
At this stage , it is fairly sketchy and perhaps conservative - with a small ` c ' - and not very radical . 
This is a shame because enlargement offers a real opportunity to make Parliament more dynamic in its operation . 
Some of the ideas outlined in this plan need to be developed further and we need to have a broader view of how things are done . 
Yesterday we heard in plenary that Parliament was unable to look at the money laundering proposals , which were agreed by the Council , for another three weeks because of the need for translation into 11 languages . 
This is extremely frustrating for everybody concerned , but what will this mean when we have 10 more languages ? 
We have buildings in Brussels which are almost empty for one week every month , and a building in Strasbourg which is hardly used and remains empty for three weeks a month . 
As the Council is consistently pointing out waste , here is an offer it can not refuse . 
It could share and make full use of our buildings by holding its meetings in our buildings . 
I hope that will also benefit transparency in the way it works . 
Mr President , justice must be done , but more importantly justice must be seen to be done : the WTO is a very powerful international organisation , dealing with rules and law , and it must be seen to act justly . 
Accountability and transparency are therefore exceptionally important . 
Global trade requires global rules and development requires understanding of some of the problems of the developing countries . 
If we are discussing transparency and accountability within the WTO process , transparency for its own sake and accountability for its own sake are just not enough . 
The fundamental purpose of both is to create integrity in the system so that those who have promised to do things , and here I mean the developed countries , are forced to do them because of international public opinion . 
There are many things that the developed countries promised in the Uruguay round which have not been delivered . 
Conversely , those in the developing world who now have systems of corruption and bad practice will also be brought to book through the process of accountability and transparency . 
In this regard , I would like to support Mr Désir in saying that he has produced an excellent report which I want to support . 
It is vital to understand the permanent position of the rule of law . 
Equality before the law and confidence in it is an absolute necessity for developing countries . 
Without it all the well-meaning words and the great aid-giving we indulge in will come to nothing . 
Justice must be done and must be seen to be done . 
Mr President , I want to move an oral amendment , with the agreement of the rapporteur , to tidy up Amendment No 3 so that it now reads : '' ... calls for a commitment by the world leaders gathered at the WTO to coordinate measures to help developing countries tackle the impediments to growth ... '' , etc. . 
I would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on his very hard work on this difficult report . 
Farming has taken a blow over the past year in the United Kingdom , and sheep farming , of course , is no exception . 
Given the fact that 80 % of my own nation - Wales - is designated by the EU as less favoured and that sheep farming is the only available method of farming in many part of Wales , this report has far-reaching implications for Wales and its hill and upland farmers , as indeed it has for their European counterparts . 
I therefore welcome additional financial support for farmers situated in less-favoured areas such as Wales and I urge fellow MEPs to support additional payments for these areas . 
Now although this premium will not solve overnight the immediate crisis , we need to get the proposal through as quickly as possible to ensure that the sheep annual premium payments will be in place by January 2002 . 
The original proposal was disappointing , and a lot of hard work has been put in to get the best deal possible for farmers in this regard . 
Pitching the figure higher than this would lose money to other sectors including rural development . 
We must protect our sheep-farming industry because to lose more farmers from the industry would have a catastrophic effect on the make-up of rural communities where small family farms play such a vital role . 
Mr President , I welcome this report and would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work . 
However , I would first of all like to highlight my concern that the current debate has consistently failed to acknowledge the failure of many Member States to implement existing Community legislation in this area . 
The latest Commission report , together with numerous mission reports , has highlighted that there is a serious disregard of animal welfare in some countries . 
The Commission must show a much greater willingness to initiate infringement proceedings against Member States which fail to enforce this directive properly . 
With respect to journey times , I hope the Commission will follow the recommendations of their scientific advisory committees and propose workable limits that allow businesses to function effectively , whilst maintaining a high standard of animal welfare . 
I will be supporting the 8-hour or 500-kilometre limit , and strongly support the view that the climate conditions of each Member State should also be taken into consideration . 
However , in areas where these journey times are unrealistic , a temporary dispensation to the maximum 8-hour travelling time should be granted where there are no slaughterhouses within a radius of 500 kilometres . 
I am thinking particularly , in the UK , of the islands of Western Scotland , and of other parts of the European Union that are affected adversely in that regard . 
Although putting a limit on journey times is an important step forward , the treatment of animals en route , vehicle ventilation , overcrowding , and the definition of space and temperature requirements during transport etc. are equally important issues . 
The recent foot-and-mouth crisis provided evidence enough that the unnecessary long-distance transport of animals was a factor in the quick spread of that disease . 
I look forward to the Commission 's policy plan scheduled for 1 January 2003 aimed at the regionalisation of meat production chains , so as to limit the long-distance transport of live animals in future . 
Mr President , the reason for this urgent resolution is self-evident . 
I should like firstly to thank the representatives from the other groups involved in drawing together this compromise . 
It is true to say that since the attacks on the USA in September the aviation industry has suffered catastrophic consequences , not least on passenger confidence , but in addition for the tens of thousands of jobs which have already been lost worldwide and in particular across Europe . 
In my own country , the United Kingdom , the slow recovery following the foot-and-mouth epidemic has suffered a major setback which is truly hard to bear . 
Whatever the failures of some of the companies in the European Union to face the challenges of the business world , the vast majority of businesses have , through no fault of their own , found themselves on the brink of bankruptcy , or even worse . 
I am not aware of any compensation for financial losses due to the closure of US airspace and airports , or for the additional security measures that the aviation industry has been expected to put in place . 
It is Member States which should assume responsibility for security costs . 
In short , the situation is a disgrace , not least because job losses outlined two months ago by many businesses are already escalating due to the lack of help . 
We in this Parliament want action - and we want it now . 
In conclusion , I must inform the Commission and the Council that it is my intention to keep this issue at the top of the agenda and I expect at the very least a report back to this Parliament at the November II part-session on the progress that has been made . 
I hope that fellow MEPs will support the comments I have made , because we must remember that thousands of livelihoods are at stake . 
Inaction is not an option , nor is a lecture on environmental issues , because at the rate we are going we will not have an aviation industry to worry about . 
I should like to say to this House that we as Members of this Parliament also have a responsibility . 
We have been asking for security measures to be stepped up and we all , therefore , must take responsibility for the people we bring here or allow here in our name . 
I would just ask you , Madam President , to remind the House of our responsibilities for future security . 
Madam President , there is a short oral amendment which has been agreed by all signatories of this compromise resolution and reads as follows : in paragraph 2 , after the word ` terrorism ' , a new sentence saying : ` Demands that national governments assume responsibility for additional security costs . ' 
Mr President , the tragic events of 11 September in the United States have given new impetus to the reinforcement of arrangements for aviation security . 
The European Council meeting the day after the terrorist attacks on the USA instructed the Transport Council to evaluate the measures to be taken to improve aviation security and complete its consideration of those already proposed . 
Whilst Parliament has responded speedily to the challenge , we believe that this should not lead to a lower level of parliamentary scrutiny and we reserve the right to amend in second reading the revised annex to this regulation adopted by the Council in its common position . 
I have met with representatives from the Council and Commission and have consulted widely with the industry . 
Due to the difficulty with the annex , as mentioned earlier , I chose to proceed with the report along the following lines : to work with the draft regulation and annex without amending the original annex as given to Parliament but to reserve the right to a second reading after the Council 's common position has been adopted . 
This option accords with established procedures and ensures proper scrutiny . 
The scope does not extend to on-board security which may need to be addressed at some future date . 
The technical standards themselves are those adopted by ECAC in 1992 in Document 30 , part 2 , relating to security issues revised in January 2001 and , as mentioned , currently being updated . 
In addition , on a general point , we are calling for more effective international cooperation in the area of exchange of information for security purposes . 
To conclude , we are all aware of the catastrophic effects on the aviation industry and tourist sector as a result of 11 September . 
Around 200 000 directly-related jobs have already been lost worldwide , 30 000 in the EU alone , and this is just the tip of the iceberg . 
It is not only big businesses which have been affected but also thousands of small businesses , such as small aviation clubs who produce the pilots of tomorrow . 
Airlines , airports , manufacturers , hotels , the transport sector are all reliant on finding a solution to this problem . 
This report is not the sole solution but it is a step in the right direction provided that the Member States recognise their moral duty to protect their citizens and accept their responsibility to assist in the financing of these additional security measures . 
It is quite clear that urgent action must be taken to restore public confidence which , in turn , would assist the aviation industry , the tourism sector and the European Union as a whole . 
Madam President , this point may be of some interest to the House . 
Honourable Members may recall voting in the mini-part-session on the Foster report on common rules in the field of civil aviation security . 
This report had to be brought forward very quickly in the light of the events of 11 September . 
We were then awaiting the response from the Transport Council meeting last Friday and everyone hoped that a common position would be reached . 
I should like to inform the House that the Transport Council and Member States did not reach a common position , despite urgent appeals from all sides on the desperate need for these measures and despite the fact that this Parliament had bent over backwards to do its very best in a very short period of time . 
The behaviour of the Member States and the Council in all of this has been quite appalling . 
This is probably one of the most important measures that has come through since 11 September and it would have affected 38 European countries . 
I will keep this House informed as to progress but I would like you , Madam President , to pass on our comments to the presidency . 
These reports will play a critical role , not just in shaping the future of telecoms but also in ensuring a greater choice in competition in the European market . 
Even more importantly , I hope they will go some way , in our drive for the knowledge-based society , towards lessening the divide there is between those who have access to information technology and those who do not . 
I am speaking on the access and interconnection directive which is extended to provide a pro-competitive and harmonised framework to stimulate competing network infrastructures and interoperability of services . 
I hope it will ensure that bottlenecks in the market do not constrain the emergence and growth of innovative services , especially for people with disabilities and services that will benefit users and consumers . 
To achieve these ambitious objectives , we first need to influence the way in which Member States regulate access and interconnection and secondly we need operators with SMP to grant other network operators interconnection facilities in a transparent way . 
An area where we have had problems and where the harmonised approach between Members has been difficult to obtain under the current framework is international roaming and call termination in mobile networks . 
I know that this directive may not be the place for such detailed information , however , in the absence of any movement from the operators , I believe it is important for us to highlight this issue . 
The fact is the cost of terminating calls in mobile networks is ten times as much as terminating in fixed networks . 
I can appreciate some of the problems in the international roaming , but the differences are too wide to be credible in terms of actual costs incurred and there is a huge spread of prices across Europe for the same service . 
The most expensive country is almost twice as expensive as the cheapest . 
I want to try to ensure , when we are looking at a level playing field and a single market , that the retail prices are cost-based and transparent and are of benefit to the consumer especially the SMEs who are trying to gain access across Europe and take advantage of the single market . 
I too would like to congratulate both the rapporteurs on their budget reports and thank them for the collaborative approach that they have adopted . 
We have had a tough budgetary procedure especially in relation to the priorities of the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy . 
This will present my committee with problems in meeting obligations on a number of programmes . 
These programmes are not just crucial to achieving a dynamic knowledge - based Europe but , in the light of the tough current economic climate that the European businesses and organisations are facing , our key to achieving our aims of creating new jobs and supporting businesses . 
However , I appreciate the constraints that we are working under and , as someone who in the past has emphasised the need for prudence , efficiency and economy , I know that my committee will do its utmost to deliver growth and prosperity for the EU . 
The issues that I really want to raise concern the implementation of the budget . 
First , there is the Commission habit of ignoring some of the priorities of this budget authority and I want to give you an example from my committee in relation to the synergy programme . 
It is a small programme , but nevertheless an important one . 
However , it did not actually suit the particular director-general to implement this programme last year and so it was just ignored because they believed it did not have a big enough impact . 
We must have mechanisms in place to stop this recurring year on year . 
Thirdly , there is the lack of synchronisation between the budgetary process and the launch of legislative programmes . 
It makes a mockery of the budgetary process and the authorities when you have the launch of the budgetary process in February and the launch of the legislative programme in November . 
I understand that Parliament has made plans for new buildings to incorporate the new Member States . 
However , if we are increasing buildings in Brussels , it is important that we learn from the lessons from Strasbourg and that we do not make the same mistakes as we did with this building which generated a lot of negative publicity and reflected very badly on Parliament . 
Therefore , for the future , it is important that we have a clear explanation of what these buildings are going to be used for and that these buildings are environmentally friendly , user-friendly and cater for people with disabilities . 
I must express surprise that we are already negotiating on new buildings in the absence of major decisions in a variety of areas including the language regime . 
It follows on from some of the comments and questions that have been asked already . 
I come from Wales , a nation with four times the population of Luxembourg , which is of course a EU Member State . 
Now in its November resolution on governance , Parliament stated categorically that it will welcome proposals from the Convention to redraft Article 5 of the EC Treaty to include a specific reference to the function of constitutional regions within Member States . 
This repeated a resolution of the previous October which stated that the Treaties should be amended specifically to recognise and respect the political and legislative powers of the internal nations and regions . 
Is the Council aware of these resolutions and if not , will it seek to ensure that attention is drawn to them during its deliberations at Laeken ? 
I should like to thank the President-in-Office for that very detailed reply . 
I have no supplementary , but I would urge the Council to continue that attitude to the plight of EU citizens because many Members of this House may have constituents who have received what is clearly an unfair trial . 
This is something that is on the increase . 
I believe that , as well as the Member State intervening on behalf of these EU citizens , the Council also has a clear role . 
I fully expect the UK Government to make representations to the Council in what I believe in this case is an example of an unfair trial leading to an irreversible death penalty . 
Mr President , as my colleague Mrs Morgan has stressed , more than 40 million European citizens speak autochthonous languages , other than the main official language of the state in which they live . 
The recent Council decision emphasises that , ` all European languages are equal in value and dignity from the cultural point of view ' . 
Although the Council 's decision does not refer specifically to regional and lesser-used languages , it does not exclude them either . 
This is why I particularly support the amendments referring to the mainstreaming of programmes and I am calling for support for a multiannual programme by 2003 . 
This is a golden opportunity to direct this agenda for the future and in preparation for enlargement . 
We must ensure that Article 22 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights is on the agenda of the next Intergovernmental Conference and that we also push for qualified majority voting in Council . 
Let us work together to ensure that regional and lesser-used languages are here to stay and remain part of the culturally diverse Europe of the future . 
Madam President , I welcome the report as it raises many important issues as we work towards a comprehensive and a safe food policy in the EU . 
Control of infectious diseases goes hand in hand with proper monitoring . 
However , we must remember , if regulations are drawn up , that it is important to impose penalties on Member States which fail to implement EU legislation on feed and foodstuffs , otherwise regulations are not worth the paper they are written on . 
I have had no satisfactory answers as to what this calculation is based upon . 
Meat under 30 months can now be exported from the UK and it is true to say that it has proved to be a safe product for the consumer . 
Another concern is the compulsory testing of sheep . 
Again I urge caution and call again on sound scientific evidence . 
This episode did little to restore farmers ' confidence in proper scientific research . 
We need to develop a comprehensive animal health strategy and ask ourselves what we have learned from BSE . 
However , we must now concentrate on the future and work on a policy and strategy to undo the damage to the food chain . 
Finally , the farming community has suffered a great blow over the past few years . 
Let us work together now towards a food safety policy and a reform of the common agricultural policy which moves us away from a so-called consumer-led policy that led to intensification - but let us not move either to a consumer-led policy based on unfounded theories . 
We must regain consumer confidence by producing a policy that will embrace all aspects . 
Madam President , I welcome the report on the Commission communication on the concrete objectives of education and training systems . 
I would like to thank the rapporteur for her conscientious work . 
In line with the goals of the Lisbon and Stockholm European Councils , it is vitally important that we enable the generation of young Europeans to choose European research careers and European scientific disciplines . 
I also agree that companies have to play a key role in training students and employees . 
My understanding is that the Commission has already started its work on social inclusion and reset its goals on the Leonardo da Vinci programme by , for example , including older people and disabled people within its scope . 
This is welcome . 
While not wanting to undermine the good work of the Commission , I must say that more can be done . 
We should also underline the importance of encouraging increased integration of European Union , Member States and regional initiatives in order to make efficient use of the relatively small budget for education and training systems . 
In this respect I would suggest better cooperation between the different kinds of funding and an exchange of best practice , together with better dialogue between the supranational , national and regional decision-makers within the Community . 
Finally , I would like to see more attention paid to the lack of equal opportunities for all individuals to experience better European integration throughout their professional lives . 
Mr President , given that today is the 50th anniversary of the accession of Her Majesty the Queen to the throne of the United Kingdom , could we not make a special note of that and send her felicitations and congratulations on fifty years of a glorious reign ? 
Mr President , I am quite sure that we all accept the premise that an inappropriate speed by any vehicle can cause accidents . 
But more often than not accidents are attibutable to the manner in which the vehicle is being driven , or the carelessness of drivers failing to be vigilant , especially in bad weather for example . 
There has to be recognition that there is a world of difference between motorway and urban driving . 
Whilst clearly agreeing with the Commission and my colleagues , including Mr Hatzidakis , that we must do all we can to improve road safety across the European Union , I can not agree that the way forward would be the introduction of this directive , which advocated a one-speed-fits-all approach . 
It is recognised that the United Kingdom has the best safety record in the EU . 
It is equally true to say that it was one of the first countries to fit speed limiters on coaches , for obvious reasons . 
To extend this directive to those categories of vehicles included in the proposal , and to impose the upper speed limits as outlined , would be a mistake . 
It is bad enough struggling along motorways when two heavy goods lorries are running parallel because one decides to overtake on a hill and clearly can not accelerate . 
If this directive comes into play I believe that congestion and environmental pollution will increase . 
Finally , the right way forward would be to seriously consider advances in technology , for example the proposed voluntary agreement on pedestrian protection . 
Nevertheless , ultimately , it should be left to the discretion of the Member State to decide what would or would not be appropriate . 
With the exception of a couple of amendments , my delegation will be unable to support this report . 
The EPLP has voted for the Hermange report on the scoreboard implementing the Social Agenda because there are many positive aspects to this report on the European Social Agenda . 
However , there are several areas of concern where the report calls on the Commission to supply information on how it proposes to act on a number of requirements that are in the Social Agenda but which the EPLP did not support in plenary in 2000 . 
In paragraph 14 the EPLP could not support the call for a European right to strike and abstained . 
The EPLP feels that this is already dealt with by Member State legislation and is also covered in the Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
Mr President , I should like to sincerely congratulate the rapporteur on his extensive and critical work on this report on the working time directive . 
It was indeed quite an urgent issue to be tackled , given the controversial discussions at the several sessions of the Court of Justice on this very matter . 
Before I speak on a number of matters to do with the working time directive , I must say that I am very pleased that a couple of Member States have already implemented a huge number of different legislative , administrative and collective agreements in this regard . 
I also feel that the measures taken by the supranational decision-makers go in the right direction , since the Commission 's new directives cover the areas excluded from the scope of the original directive . 
However , there is still a lot of work to be done . 
We all know - and the rapporteur did well to criticise it - that some Member States resort to the tactic of claiming that their existing legislation covers the provisions of the directive . 
I can not understand , therefore , why they hesitate to implement a fairly flexible directive in the large amount of time available . 
We should insist as well on controls on the conditions of application of the directive to new working-time patterns , for example , precarious work , part-time work and fixed-time work . 
In addition to that I see a strong need to focus more intensively on the increasing number of homeworkers . 
The Commission itself has made strenuous efforts with regard to open and distance learning within the Leonardo da Vinci programme , for example . 
I feel obliged then to ask you : why do we not give stronger encouragement to the social partners to negotiate the relevant working-time issues ? 
Nevertheless , the report could have gone further into detail , as it unfortunately neglects so-called self-employed workers . 
Mr President , I very much welcome the establishment of the second phase of Socrates and thank Mrs Pack for her excellent work . 
We have undoubtedly seen increased cooperation in the field of European education combined with a new commitment to life-long learning and that is heartening . 
In Wales , my own nation , and indeed the whole of the UK , there is a problem in encouraging the acquisition of language skills across the board . 
ERASMUS has gone a long way to improving this and I would like to see an increase in the figure of 460 000 participating students a year . 
Such exchanges make a distinct commitment to better linguistic skills , but also promote cultural cooperation . 
The Commission must continue to do its utmost to ensure that the application procedure is more user-friendly and I agree with comments by other speakers that at the moment the administrative side of the programme makes it difficult for participants . 
There has been a real administrative burden on the applicants throughout this programme , particularly under the COMENIUS scheme which needs to be addressed urgently . 
Regardless of how successful this programme is , it must always be as open as possible for those wishing to participate . 
There has been some criticism , of course , concerning the high administrative costs , as the programme comprises so many small projects , which are naturally therefore more expensive to administer . 
I have been fortunate to have worked closely with a disadvantaged youth group from Wales , my own nation , who received funding under the programme . 
The young people involved gained so much and to see them speaking here in Brussels , some of whom were previously young offenders , highlighted to me the importance of this programme . 
The inclusion of worthwhile projects with disadvantaged youth groups , I assure you , is worth every penny of the expenditure . 
We must safeguard the programme and protect its main objectives of targeting disadvantaged young people . 
I have three main issues I wish to touch briefly on . 
I hope this is not seen as a negative message by them . 
Secondly , it is imperative that we iron out some of the contradictions and inconsistencies in the report . 
My understanding of the Executive of this and of many other Parliaments across the world is that the Administration is generally neutral . 
I have grave concerns about what has been suggested and the implication that the Administration is not neutral or that it should not be , and I shudder to think of the consequences of this . 
Are we really going to ask the staff to tick a political affiliation box before they are appointed to a new job ? 
Therefore , I would urge the rapporteur to distance himself from such negative statements . 
These sentiments , if carried , will be to the detriment of the standing of Parliament . 
Thirdly , with respect to the freelancing of translation and interpreters , I have no problems with improving efficiency and exploring ways to achieve this , but the statement we have here is an ideological standpoint with no evidence to support the assertion that freelance translation will be more cost-effective and of the quality required to meet Members ' needs . 
This also runs in direct contradiction to the emphasis in the report on developing the Podestà report further with regard to the linguistic regime for enlargement . 
Speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group , we are interested in working in cooperation with the rapporteur at the next stage when we get to estimates , to strengthen the report and to achieve consensus in this key budget area . 
However , cooperation is only achievable if it is a two-way process . 
Mr President , I should like to thank my colleague , Mr Jarzembowski , for all his hard work . 
As Mr Jarzembowski has explained , it is extremely important that this directive repeals the original hushkit regulation within the timeframe laid down . 
Without doubt , having discussed the hushkit issue on and off since many of us were elected in 1999 and for many years before , it will come as a relief that this debate can reach a conclusion . 
It is worth reminding some of our colleagues that , when the agreement was reached between the EU and the US at the ICAO meeting in Montreal , all Member States were represented and agreed with the proposals that were put forward . 
The key to those proposals was to take the balanced approach . 
If we are to have any credibility it would be ludicrous if we in this Parliament then reneged on what has been agreed . 
Speaking as someone who has lived close to London Heathrow , the busiest international airport in the world , for 30 years , and acknowledging the prosperity and jobs which flow from a successful industry , I find it extremely disappointing that perhaps some Members would prefer to score party political points rather than take on board the broader picture of what is required . 
What would not be acceptable would be for any airport within the EU to be in a position to arbitrarily prevent or stop legitimate carriers from operating into and out of their airport . 
The decision has to be made at Member State level in order to ensure a uniform application of any rules laid down . 
However , if we are to improve congestion and noise pollution for the future , I suggest that Member States and local authorities take responsibility for proper land use planning and think carefully before using the aviation industry as a scapegoat for their failures . 
Finally , having read through the additional amendments , many of which have been retabled predominantly by the Committee on the Environment , I found it somewhat disappointing that those Members found it necessary to go along that path . 
I hope that they will think seriously about their actions and support the rapporteur when we vote on this report tomorrow . 
International agreements are the way forward and we should continue to build on the agreement which was reached in Montreal . 
Implicit in this report are western cultural values which make a presumption against the rights of women in Islam . 
I would question the wisdom of this parliament in producing this report and in doing so pass judgement on other cultures and their values . 
I believe this report was based on an external view and with very narrow and limited experience of Islamic lifestyle . 
I am deeply committed to equal opportunities for women everywhere , however , I believe it is crucial that women in different parts of the world can establish their own concept of freedom which takes into account the variety of different cultures and values they hold . 
If 60 000 people were killed in the developed world - that is the magnitude of the atrocities we are looking at now in Sri Lanka - then every possible means would be deployed to address the matter and bring those responsible before the courts and establish the rule of law . 
There is serious and flagrant discrimination and economic underdevelopment in the areas of the country where the majority of the Tamil population lives . 
This is an area where the European Union could play a meaningful role , through funding programmes to address the imbalance and further the cause of peace and reconciliation . 
We must act concertedly here or more innocent Sri Lankans will join the half a million people who have already fled the country . 
Our attendance at the donors ' meeting in Sri Lanka , scheduled for May , is vital . 
I also call on the presidency to ensure forthwith that this resolution is conveyed to the Council , the Commission and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka . 
Mr President , I would like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur , Mr Schmitt , on his report which now brings a sensible compromise to the original Commission proposal . 
It is fair to say that all of us in this House would have fully supported the creation of a pan-European body dealing specifically with the certification of aeronautical products , which is eminently sensible and which I fully support . 
However , my own view was that the scope of the original Commission proposal was too broad and there were a considerable number of concerns regarding the issues of sovereignty , the regulatory framework and in particular the autonomy of the proposed agency . 
It must be emphasised that , as with national civil aviation authorities which quite clearly deal solely with safety matters , this agency should not be drawn into dealing with other aspects , such as environmental and competition issues . 
In addition , I would expect it to work along similar lines to those of national civil aviation authorities whose responsibilities are as independent regulators . 
Although I received a comprehensive response from the Commission regarding the future of the national CAAs , their role still needs to be further clarified in terms of their future scope and remit . 
It should also be emphasised that efforts should continue to be concentrated on achieving uniform applicability of ICAO , JAA and Eurocontrol standards that are already in existence . 
The safety agency should not seek to parallel and create unwilling distortions of the current ICAO-based safety framework . 
Finally , as we would expect independent experts to run this agency , it would not be in anyone 's interests should there be undue political or Commission interference , thereby potentially rendering the issue of safety a secondary factor . 
I speak in my capacity as Secretary of the SOS Democracy Group to explain our opposition to the two resolutions on defence on which the Chamber has just voted . 
There is a range of views in this House about the military needs of the continent . 
However one thing that ought to be uncontroversial is that the defence of Europe should be primarily governed by strategic rather than political considerations . 
Yet this is the opposite of what is proposed in these resolutions . 
At best this is a pointless and expensive exercise in duplication , at worst it leaves Europe weaker by cutting its links with the one NATO partner able to supply air - and sea-lift capability , advanced communication satellites and accurate missiles . 
Again and again European defence ministers , including British ones , have been prepared to disregard the advice of their own generals in order to pursue joint European projects . 
Perhaps the supreme example of this thinking is the Eurofighter , an aeroplane which is becoming operative years late , billions of euros over budget , and which is effectively already obsolete . 
Mr President , I would also like to add my thanks to the rapporteur for his work on this very important report . 
According to some reports , parents were not aware of the facilities , such as the blocks on pay TV and Internet filters , which help them control what their children watch . 
Parents need to be given more information on how these work and how trustworthy they are . 
Finally , child pornography on the Internet is unforgivable , and there are vast numbers of websites with illegal content located outside the European Union . 
I commend the report to the House and thank the rapporteur again for his excellent initiative in this regard . 
Health and safety is of course very important but we must be mindful that we propose texts which are based on sound scientific evidence and research . 
Having looked into this matter carefully I could not find any concrete scientific evidence to support the proposal concerning whole body vibrations . 
ECAC membership extends to 38 European States including all EU Member States . 
Mr President , I too would like to thank Mr Stenmarck for his report . 
I agree with him that the estimates in front of us are critical in that they deal with Parliament 's preparations for enlargement . 
Our credibility more than ever depends on getting this right . 
In this context the need for improved provision for information is imperative and I therefore support the 15 % increase outlined in this report for this area . 
Bringing the work of the European Parliament closer to the people must be one of our top priorities . 
It is increasingly evident that all the work we have been doing on information provision has not quite caught the imagination of the European public . 
I heard recently some evidence from the Irish referendum on the Nice Treaty which shows that citizens who went to Parliament or Commission information offices for literature were not sufficiently convinced or motivated to go out and vote . 
If this is indeed the case , we need a fundamental review of what we are publishing and how we are communicating with the people . 
So what did encourage people to go out and vote ? 
The source of information that encouraged people to go out and vote `` yes '' most effectively was conversations with friends and family . 
The clear message for us is that producing mountains of glossy brochures is not getting the message across . 
I , for one , am continually meeting people who are completely confused about the roles of the different institutions . 
We need , therefore , to recognise that we must have interinstitutional cooperation on information policy , and such cooperation has been quite slow to develop . 
I know that some of these issues may be dealt with by the convention and I know the Council is talking about opening up its decision-making process to permit greater transparency . 
However , we need to be more focused and targeted in our approach and I am not entirely convinced that the proposal in this report to broadcast Parliament 's plenary part-sessions on the Internet , will really solve the problem . 
How many people will be inclined to sit at their computer and watch such broadcasts ? 
Before we go down this particular road we should undertake a pilot study and look at the cost-value ratio of this measure . 
I am also extremely concerned about how the institutions are going to deal with proposals for funding the administrative costs . 
I have enormous reservations about this , because my understanding of the flexibility instrument is that it is meant to be there for unforeseen events . 
How can we justify using this to the taxpayer for the administrative purposes which are known and have been foreseen for quite a long time ? 
What happens if there is another crisis in the coming year ? 
How will we fund measures to tackle it ? 
Commissioner Schreyer also made a reference to pensions . 
I recognise that this is an area in which there has been a dramatic increase in terms of the provisions we need , given the demographic profile of staff in the institutions . 
Surely we need proposals for the long term which look at how we can provide for the pensions by setting up a fund or alternative means , . 
The issue of budgetary rigour is referred to time and time again . 
The area most affected by enlargement within the institution will be staff and the building costs related to languages . 
Whilst I support the right of all MEPs to speak their own language , we must recognise that we need to rationalise this and we need to recognise the danger of a loss of dynamism in our meetings . 
The Council therefore needs to look at the Treaty provisions to see how we can rationalise this area . 
Secondly , the issue of the seat of the European Parliament requires urgent attention . 
This fact alone has a major impact on costs . 
Surely it is time that Parliament has one seat . 
Mr President , sometimes I feel that this House is so preoccupied with its own debates that it has lost sight of what is going on beyond its walls . 
Across Europe voters feel taken for granted by their politicians ; they feel that how they vote makes little difference and that they have next to no control over their own futures . 
Yet , our response is to offer them more of the same . 
This report confirms and entrenches the progressive transfer of powers from national parliaments to the European Union institutions . 
It sets out the areas where the Union should have full or partial control but it offers no commensurate list of matters to be reserved for the nation-states . 
It offers a mechanism for the extension of EU jurisdiction into new areas , but no equivalent mechanism for the repatriation of powers . 
While I fully respect the sincerity of those who support the report , it seems to me that their case is based on two questionable assumptions . 
First , there is an implicit premise that the very fact of there being an international dimension to some policy area of itself justifies a common European approach . 
This reasoning may be superficially plausible but I find it specious . 
After all , the absence of a supranational policy does not mean that the Member States are unable to cooperate one with another . 
It may well be that multilateral collaboration can produce better results than enforced uniformity . 
Second , there is a reluctance to recognise any matter as being exclusively national . 
But again , the fact that a nation has complete jurisdiction in a given field , does not preclude its working with its neighbours . 
The nation-states must be allowed to define certain areas of policy as being essentially domestic in that they have no direct impact on the internal affairs of other Member States . 
Further , they should have the right to guarantee this judicial supremacy in their constitutions . 
Just as the European Treaties define the competences of the Union , so the national constitutions should be able to ring-fence certain matters of wholly national concern . 
I do not have time now to elaborate a full list of these areas , although I have done so in a paper published by the SOS Democracy Intergroup . 
The transfer of powers must be allowed to happen both ways : it is dogmatic and wrong to assume that action at Brussels level is inherently preferable to national action . 
It is this attitude that is widening the rift between those of us in this House and our constituents beyond it . 
Madam President , I want to take a little time to talk about corporate social responsibility and sustainable development , not from the Left but from the Right of this chamber . 
Unless the corporate social responsibility issues are understood properly , this will become another sort of shibboleth for the global economy . 
Global economy requires global rules . 
The last time there was a semblance of any sort of global economy was during the period of the empires , when the British , the French , the Italians and the Spanish empires went out and created economic activity . 
But even the British East India company had social corporative responsibility : they built schools ; they cleaned up Bengal ; they built railways ; they put infrastructure in and they created offset investments . 
That is how the inter-dependency between economies of the poorer and the richer countries developed . 
Today , corporate social responsibility requires us to recognise that if you take the top 200 largest multinational companies , their combined turnover is greater than the combined GNP of 172 countries . 
So the 200 chairmen of these companies have enormous social responsibility . 
We need to enjoin them to forge a partnership for development ; not carp about what they do , but help them , because shareholder value depends hugely now , even in the City of London , on whether companies behave ethically . 
I have seen time and time again that companies with proper environmental and development policies have higher shareholder value than those companies that engage in looting and raping the other places . 
So I am asking colleagues on my Right , not colleagues on my Left who are already there , to understand that inter-dependence requires us to look at our own economic and enterprise development and tell our companies to be partners in this development process . 
We found the regulation of open skies a very difficult issue . 
I am also a former director of the second largest airline in Britain . 
I am also concerned to tell you that I left London at one o'clock this afternoon and I arrived here at nine o'clock this evening . 
That is as a consequence of a complete monopoly on this route to and from London . 
That is not the reason why I am standing up although I am taking action about what happens to me and my other colleagues from the English contingent regularly when we fly from London to Strasbourg . 
Deregulation is important , competition is important and in Mr Stockmann 's report ably shadowed by my colleague , Ms Foster , we have struck a balance of some kind . 
It is also important to understand that although we want to open things up quickly and deregulate quickly and introduce competition the aviation industry also requires heavy investment . 
Therefore we have to be careful that we do not destabilise the European aviation industry like the reforms in the United States where the entire American aviation industry went into a tailspin . 
We must be careful that we do not destabilise it by moving too quickly without carrying industry with us . 
It requires heavy financial and capital investment to be able to do this and I would like to ask the Commissioner to be careful when she implements some of these proposals . 
Madam President , the report before the House makes perfect sense if you believe that this Parliament ought to be the legislature of a European Polity . 
After all , every other state has a national assembly elected by a uniform method . 
But I hope Members will acknowledge that this is not the only legitimate view of the European Union . 
Some of us see this Parliament not as a federal assembly , but as a forum wherein the representatives of the peoples of Europe may hold the EU bureaucracy to account . 
The role of a Member of the European Parliament is not to be an agent for the European project ; it is to represent the interests of his constituents . 
I was elected to speak for south east England in Brussels , not to speak for Brussels in south east England . 
That is why I believe that it should be up to each Member State to decide how and when to select its MEPs . 
I personally favour a majoritarian first-past-the-post voting system . 
But even if I did not , I would still object to any method being imposed by the EU . 
Nor is it the business of this House to dictate the gender composition of electoral lists . 
It is surely up to each party to decide how many men and women it wants to offer as candidates and up to voters to pass judgment on them . 
Above all , I object to the reiteration of this Parliament 's demand for a pan-European top-up list . 
This , it seems to me , elevates the dogma of European integration above any practical considerations of accountability or responsiveness . 
There can be no European democracy as long as there is no European demos . 
We delude ourselves if we believe that this House commands anything like the affinity and identity which national parliaments have built up over the centuries . 
Mr President , I also welcome the statement in the Seville declaration concerning India and Pakistan . 
It is crucial that Europe takes responsibility and initiative in solving the crisis in the region and does not just leave the peace efforts to the USA and Russia , especially since some of the EU Member States have strong historical links with the region . 
I also believe that it is essential for the development of the CFSP that the EU plays a major role . 
I strongly agree with the Council 's statement about the threat to the whole region and , indeed , the whole world from a nuclear conflict . 
President Prodi is correct in saying that we have far more opportunity to influence the situation positively before a conflict breaks out than after . 
I wholeheartedly endorse moves by both India and Pakistan in the last few days , to seek a peaceful solution to the conflict in Kashmir . 
We have to support these . 
So the sooner de-escalation takes place the better . 
It is vital that diplomatic relations and transport links between the two countries are restored . 
Bilateral talks between two sides need to take place as soon as possible . 
Although war seems to be averted for now , tensions could easily rise again , especially around the time of elections in the Indian Kashmir in September . 
On that point , it is vital that these elections are demonstrably free and fair . 
However , we need to ensure that fighting over the territory of Kashmir is stopped permanently . 
A quest for territory was the catalyst for the Second World War and the solution sought to that issue needs to be applied in this case as well . 
Just as trade was used to prevent conflict when the European Coal and Steel community was founded , it is vital to consider such means as a peaceful way to keep tensions permanently low . 
The GDP of the two countries is very low and poverty remains a major problem . 
Despite recent positive efforts , only half the population of the region is literate , which is a major a barrier to economic growth . 
It is essential for the EU to prioritise global security through a poverty reduction programme . 
The overwhelming message is clear . 
War can never be the solution in situations like this . 
Any action must be economic or humanitarian with positive steps to resolve the high level tensions . 
Let us now turn our attention to the people . 
Mr Olsson has already mentioned in his report the political and economic importance of agriculture in all CEECs and the structural changes that are required in their rural areas . 
It is also crucial to bring agriculture and the foodstuffs industries into line with the European Union standards , especially hygiene and veterinary standards . 
But we must also accept that many candidate countries practice far less intensive methods of agriculture and give a more prominent place to rural development . 
To give a positive signal for enlargement , we should give the candidate countries equal voice in the discussions on the future of agricultural policy . 
Whilst agreeing that the gradual introduction of direct payments would prevent a sudden excessive influx of cash , with over-production as an end result , it would also mean the unequal treatment of the new Member States during the ten-year transitional period , which would be very discouraging for them . 
The EU should make clear that there must in the longer term be a single common agricultural policy for all Member States , with all players starting on an equal footing . 
Mr President , you may recall that before the summer I proposed an initiative on a global Christian/Muslim/Jewish dialogue with representatives of the Christian , Muslim and Jewish parliaments to be sponsored by yourself here in the European Parliament . 
During the summer , it has been noticeable that tensions have risen regarding September 11 or Iraq or what is happening in regard to Israel/Palestine . 
I think it is time for such a dialogue , as a focus for the good forces of moderation and moderate people . 
This idea was mooted to me by the Speaker of the Philippine Parliament , when we were there , and I think the time has come for this initiative . 
Mr President , we meet here as the World Summit on Sustainable Development is meeting in South Africa , following the ground-breaking meeting of the WTO in Doha last year . 
We wish him well and also acknowledge with thanks the hard work done by Mr Mike Moore , the departing Director-General . 
Let us remind ourselves of the United Nations Secretary-General 's report on globalisation to the Millennium Assembly . 
He said that inclusive globalisation must be built on the great enabling force of the market and market forces alone will not achieve it . 
It requires a broader effort to create a shared future based on our common humanity . 
This report is an attempt to bring the Secretary-General 's hopes into a legislative framework here in the European Parliament . 
It is trade , not aid , that will drive the solutions to food security , clean water , housing , sanitation and information technology through foreign direct and inward investment . 
But unfortunately the human development report shows that the spread of technology , trade and wealth has not been equal , with the world 's richest nations accounting for 20 % of the world 's population but 86 % of the world 's GDP , 82 % of exports , 68 % of foreign direct investment and 93 % of Internet users . 
There are 51 chronically low-income countries , mainly in Africa but also in Asia and Central America , which depend entirely on aid because there is very little direct foreign investment . 
There are 200 chairmen of transnational corporations whose combined turnover is bigger than the combined GNPs of presidents and finance ministers of 182 countries , encompassing probably the largest population groups in the world . 
But my report proposes that the people who are running these huge multinational corporations are brought into the development process , first by encouraging them to accept good governance and corporate social responsibility as enunciated by the United Nations Secretary-General . 
We must create a framework in which the European Parliament , members of national parliaments and the directors of these companies can come together in a forum regularly , twice a year , with the rotating presidency of the EU to discuss matters of development and sustainability , not once in a blue moon as in Johannesburg or in Rio , but in a continuous dialogue . 
As part of this , I have proposed in my report that they set up something called an ethical investment committee on the lines of remuneration committees and other committees in boards of directors . 
The committee 's job would be to identify development investment , investment as offset investments in developing countries . 
About 0.7 % of their turnover in that country would go into investment projects to build intellectual , educational and infrastructural capacity in developing countries . 
That way everybody gains : the company because it gets a more skilled labour force and the country because it improves its capacity . 
I hope that Parliament will approve my proposal unanimously . 
May I thank the many people who have helped me with this report and express the hope that it will be passed tomorrow without any dissension . 
Mr President , I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Maes on a very competent and excellent report . 
Consideration of this subject is long overdue and I am grateful to the Commission for bringing it forward . 
The problem of third countries ' aircraft and their safety standards has been of great concern to many people , particularly Eastern European airlines and maybe even further east than that . 
The Commission 's directive has sought to resolve this problem by introducing a large number of ramp inspections and inspectors to do spot-check inspections on these aircraft as they land in the European Union . 
That is one way to do it . 
There is another way we could have approached this , but I am not going to complain . 
I would just like to say that the way the Commission has proposed is a massive job creation programme for aeronautical engineers and technicians . 
I myself am an aeronautical engineer so I should not be complaining about this . 
But it is going to create a number of jobs at the Community airports where people will have to go and do spot-check inspections and ramp inspections . 
An alternative that I might suggest for future consideration is to actually upgrade technical and maintenance facilities in third countries and give them support and aid so that they can upgrade their own technical specifications and maintenance facilities to a standard that is internationally acceptable . 
It is also a way of getting its equipment into place around the world - the Boeing-Airbus agreement , I suppose . 
There are , of course , a number of issues relating to Community air transport which we need to look at . 
Might I be permitted to raise a very important issue for the British MEPs coming to Strasbourg ? 
We get thrown off flights , even with fully confirmed tickets . 
Air France has done this repeatedly ; yesterday two of my colleagues with confirmed tickets were thrown off because the flight had been overbooked . 
There is such a thing as a European arrest warrant , which we understand is now going to be put in place . 
I am raising these issues so that we may act before it is too late . 
Mr President , I wish to begin by thanking our rapporteurs , Mr Fava and Mrs Sanders-ten Holte , and also the shadow rapporteur , Mr Schmitt , for all their hard work on a very complex and detailed report . 
However , I should like to raise a number of concerns that have not yet been addressed , in particular by the Commission . 
The aviation industry can not continue to sustain the loss of USD 4 billion due to delays across Europe and I recognise that doing nothing is not an option . 
Even worse , there is still a real danger of damaging or destroying existing pan-European systems that function to everybody 's satisfaction , solely because they need to be placed all of a sudden in an EU context . 
I refer in particular to the Commission proposal to recreate the Eurocontrol route charges and central flow management systems . 
I would also question the establishment of an industry consultation body , as this would be an unnecessary duplication of the existing system . 
It is our duty to look beyond our borders and create meaningful and effective actions and measures to improve the safety , efficiency and economics of air traffic management which will not lead to a two-tier system , thereby jeopardising the current modus operandi . 
In addition , we can not ignore the genuine concerns of many Member States regarding the military dimensions of Single Sky , nor the sovereignty issue . 
On 6 July 2000 , during our initial debate here in this House , I informed the House that 44 % of delays and 30 bottlenecks were concentrated in sectors straddling north and south , including Switzerland , France , Italy , Spain and parts of Germany . 
I also stressed that it was inappropriate to use Eurocontrol as the scapegoat . 
A Single Sky will not solve all of our congestion problems if these Member States and Switzerland do not make a concerted effort to address their specific shortcomings . 
Finally , both airlines and airports will also need to look closely at their practices , as they too are far too often responsible for a high percentage of the delays incurred . 
This report has come a long way and , again , we must thank the rapporteurs . 
But we are not there yet . 
I hope that there will be further and better clarification once Council has met . 
It was a very necessary initiative and I commend it . 
Universities are the cornerstone of our societies , so encouraging universities , students and teachers to forge closer links and share experiences will play a crucial role in enriching our societies . 
It will also increase European competitiveness , because universities play an important role now in the business sector . 
Many higher education establishments are already suffering a funding crisis and European Union higher education legislation will not be brought closer without proper financial commitment . 
I urge the Commission , the Council and Parliament to ensure this happens , because it is vital that this initiative is properly funded . 
However , I would have liked to see more emphasis on the teaching of modern foreign languages , since linguistic barriers are one of the main impediments to mobility . 
In my own country , the UK , the compulsory teaching of foreign languages is being cut back . 
Providing an optional language is very important . 
I commend this report to the House and fully support it . 
Madam President , it is my pleasure in this report to endorse the annual report for 2001 submitted by the Ombudsman , which is a comprehensive and detailed overview of the activities conducted during the year and in particular of all the various cases processed . 
After seven years , the role of the European Ombudsman - to enhance openness and democratic accountability in the decision-making and administration of the European Union - is well established . 
By tackling maladministration in the Community institutions and bodies , the role of the Ombudsman has made an essential contribution towards a Union in which decisions are truly taken as openly as possible and as closely as possible to the citizen . 
The present Ombudsman , Mr Söderman , from whom we have already heard , has become a well recognised and respected figure in the European Union and his receipt of awards such as the Alexis de Tocqueville prize further demonstrates this . 
He has even paid a visit to my own country , Wales , showing a commitment and dedication through his work to visit some of the most important places in the world . 
During his time in office he has emphasised the Rule of Law , taking fundamental rights seriously and applying basic principles of good administration , such as transparency , responsibility and respect for citizens . 
The report very much welcomes the fact that the European authorities are increasingly taking action to settle a complaint once they are made aware of the problem in question and that , in other cases , a friendly solution has been arrived at . 
The Ombudsman must also be commended for his efforts to inform more citizens of their right to complain . 
This is a matter that the Committee on Petitions is continually aware of . 
This means that the Ombudsman 's work has to include the continuous updating of his website with a view to making his role known to an ever-wider public and to establishing networks of links with regional ombudsmen . 
In this regard the Ombudsman is faced with , on the one hand , wanting to inform as many people as possible of this right to complain and , on the other , remembering that the remit of his office is limited to the Community institutions . 
We in Parliament have a role to play here , in ensuring that we remain aware of the Ombudsman 's role and informing citizens of this right . 
The work of the Ombudsman , however , has not been without obstacles during this period . 
In the field of good administration the European Parliament adopted unanimously last September the European Union Code on Good Administrative Behaviour and called on the Commission to propose a regulation on the subject . 
I welcome the Ombudsman 's decision to apply the principles set out in this code in his activities . 
I should like to express my disappointment here , however , that the Commission has yet to act on this important request . 
The report calls for Parliament to consider drawing up a legislative initiative report on the basis of this model code under Article 192 and Rule 59 . 
In relation to openness and good administrative behaviour this report notes attempts by certain institutions to use recently adopted data protection rules to impose confidentiality on their activities . 
It must be made clear that data protection rules are mainly concerned with the protection of private and family life and certainly should not in any way restrict the information available to citizens on the activities of the European Union institutions . 
With regard to the infringement procedure , the Article 226 procedure , in which the Commission investigates complaints about infringements of Community law by Member States , which continues to be the subject of complaints to the Ombudsman - and this is something with which we in the Committee on Petitions are all too familiar - the report finds that , despite recent improvements , this procedure is secretive , and that the complainant is still not recognised as a participant . 
Delays occur because the Commission has too many cases to deal with . 
Whilst we appreciate the hard work carried out by the Commission , the Ombudsman and our Committee on Petitions depend on their investigations being effective , and we must be confident that such cases are being handled correctly . 
Finally , I welcome the offer by the Ombudsman to develop joint activities with the Committee on Petitions with a view to reinforcing the contacts and exchange of experience with national and regional Ombudsmen and committees on petitions . 
Closer cooperation between the European Ombudsman 's office and the Committee on Petitions is vital . 
Our work is very much interlinked and we were provided with excellent examples of how this could be achieved when the Ombudsman addressed the Committee on Petitions in April . 
I commend the report to the House and wish the Ombudsman a very happy retirement . 
Mr President , it would be a grave misconception to look at the imminent attack on the Iraqi state as a new state of affairs . 
We all know that the attacks on Iraq are already underway on a massive scale in the no-fly zones in the country . 
I do not know under which international agreements they have been allowed to continue , but such attacks have only intensified and worsened the situation in the country . 
However we view , as a Parliament , the proposed attack on Saddam Hussein , we can not look at it in isolation . 
It would , along with the threat to oil supplies , globalise an already-escalating conflict . 
We condemn Saddam Hussein unreservedly for his regime which oppresses minorities and offends democracy in Iraq . 
A more sensible and productive international approach , however , would be to defend and ensure self-determination for all minorities in Iraq , especially the five million Kurds in the north of the country comprising one quarter of the Iraqi population . 
Human rights and freedom in Iraq would be better served were we to take that course of action , uniting minorities and the international community behind a common front to topple Saddam and all other world dictators . 
The relevance of small and micro-enterprises was recognised by the Feira European Council . 
This is why they should benefit from the EU financial instruments to a much greater degree than they have so far . 
To achieve this , the Commission urgently needs to recognise and readdress three areas . 
I am not entirely satisfied with the explanations we have had from the Commissioner . 
The Commission needs to tackle the lack of information SMEs and micro-enterprises have about these programmes . 
Access to information about how to get financing is an essential starting point for encouraging entrepreneurship and SMEs ' activities . 
Therefore , the Commission and Member States need to launch campaigns to give SMEs clear and simple information on how to benefit from EU projects and programmes . 
In Europe , SMEs have to face many more obstacles when accessing financing than is the case for SMEs in the United States . 
We have heard about the Joint European Venture Programme and why it has failed . 
We must look at the figures . 
One of the reasons is that one in five projects was refused by the Commission or withdrawn due to the level of administrative requirements . 
This needs to be investigated . 
This meant that the programme was doomed to fail from the start . 
I know that in my region there are many micro-enterprises and SMEs who would have welcomed the opportunity to be involved in this programme . 
I hope that its successor will address some of these problems because this programme is important , especially for the candidate countries . 
The European Parliament has passed the EU budget , voting down an EDD amendment calling for the reimbursement of MEPs ' expenses at actual cost . 
Amendments to this effect have been put down at successive budgets as long as I have been a member here , and have been rejected on every occasion . 
At a time when the EU is celebrating enlargement , it is critical that the European Parliament demonstrate a commitment to financial probity and open accounting . 
Once again , it has failed to do so . 
Mr President , Ms Attwooll said that the rapporteur had been inclusive in carrying out this report . 
The situation now is a classic contrast between flexibility and protection . 
There is a need to understand the situation in countries where there is a less-developed temporary agency worker regulation . 
That is why I welcome amendments like Amendment No 71 , through the efforts of the rapporteurs and others to understand that situation . 
We are not at extremes in this area . 
We are in a situation where there is evidence that those vulnerable workers looking to us for protection require that protection and good agency employers require growth and flexibility . 
As Mr Hughes said , we are at the beginning of that process . 
Let us shape a directive that strikes that vital balance . 
The UK delegation of the Labour Party recognises the serious UK Government concern over this directive . 
It is important to strike a balance between protecting agency workers and avoiding burdens that could stop business engaging them , particularly for short-term assignments . 
Temporary Work Agencies make an important contribution to the employment market in the UK and should not be penalised . 
Increased administrative burdens could lead to increases in costs , which could be passed onto user organisations or cause the closure of the business and job losses . 
The EPLP has thus voted against Amendment 42 calling for the deletion of the 6-week derogation from the original Commission proposal . 
It feels that it is important that at least a 6-week derogation remains in the proposal . 
The EPLP voted for Amendment 73 to support comprehensive and effective impact assessments . 
This helps SMEs . 
The EPLP submitted and supported Amendment 71 , calling for an extra transition period for the UK . 
It is therefore necessary that there is an additional period of 3 years , allowing 5 years in total , for this directive to be implemented in the UK and Ireland . 
The EPLP has supported this report at first reading but with the strong reservations set out here . 
Mr President , as the final member speaking on this issue , I would like to repeat and underline that the directive will , over time , render occupational noise-induced hearing loss and associated conditions diseases of the past . 
That is an achievement by the rapporteur , compounded by the fact that there were a number of national positions which were very difficult at the outset of this report , as has been said by other members . 
A huge amount of work went into that position . 
From the United Kingdom position , we were left with the situation where a number of issues had to be ironed out . 
I think it is important not to caricature health and safety measures when a huge amount of work has gone into ironing out those national positions . 
We heard a lot from Mrs Lynne about the impact on musicians in the entertainment sector . 
We have all in the United Kingdom heard much said on this . 
The fact is that those sectors have been satisfied by what could have been a far more difficult directive . 
The rapporteur is to be congratulated on the progress made . 
That is why I will be voting in favour . 
Having put forward a thorough report , I would like to add that emphasis on airport security should not preclude measures from EU Member States from providing some form of redress for EU citizens who are unfairly searched , detained or harassed at airports without just cause . 
These are at present inadequate statutory forms of redress for such infringement at both ports and airports . 
This is often reflected in constituency cases . 
In the light of September 11 , the Foster report is a strong contribution to the security of all EU citizens . 
Mr President , like my colleague , Mrs Thorning-Schmidt , I was looking forward to a midnight speaking slot , as this is a health and safety issue ! 
It is quite symbolic that we are speaking about this matter at a reasonable time because it goes so much further than just health and safety . 
This morning in the United Kingdom , in our flagship news programme , the Today Programme , unusually the question of asbestos was raised at another reasonable hour . 
It was raised because of the matter that Mrs Thorning-Schmidt raised , namely the implementation of this directive . 
So effective has the work been on this particular directive and matter , and so effective is the way the debate has gone and the agreement between the political groups that Member States are now looking carefully at the way we implement the directive . 
This morning the Health and Safety Executive set out for the United Kingdom exactly how this directive would be implemented , the way that even small - and medium-size enterprises would find a way through this health and safety legislation . 
It is important ; it has huge agreement , but we must also understand the real dangers . 
Not only will the Member States start to implement this - and we must monitor it carefully - but candidate countries are using asbestos at a level we can only estimate , but it is quite a dangerous level . 
So we must set the tone through implementation of this directive , pay tribute to the way Parliament has discussed this and ensure that we in the EU Member States and the candidate countries make something of this directive to reflect the level of debate in this House . 
I have voted for this report because I believe that it deals very well with a complex but urgent issue - that of bringing war criminals to justice within the European Union . 
Mr Kirkhope as a former Home Office Minister in the UK has a good understanding of the complexity of the issue and has shown in his reports the benefits of action at a European level . 
The Council text has been amended so that some articles which may have breached rules of subsidiarity ( those that are concerned with the regulation of investigations and prosecutions rather than with the exchange of information ) , in fact are now , in my view , in line with this principle . 
Mr President , I too would like to congratulate both rapporteurs , who have attained good results . 
I would particularly like to thank Mr Stenmarck for his cooperation in working with me on the other institutions ' budgets and , crucially , the implementation of the front-loading exercise . 
This means that those budgets which at the outset were EUR 66 million over the ceiling , are now within an acceptable margin . 
This should help us in the 2004 budget as well . 
The start of 2003 was a difficult budgetary year . 
It has been a real juggling act for both rapporteurs , especially on our main budget . 
I have observed over the last three years a year-on-year crisis situation . 
Whilst the EU 's obligations and global needs are growing , the finances are not . 
One of the fundamental problems for Parliament is the lack of influence on the whole of the EU 's budget , particularly category 1 . 
Therefore , I would like to congratulate both Mr Stenmarck and Mr Färm , particularly Mr Färm , for achieving what he has done in delivering on most of Parliament 's priorities . 
The reality of enlargement is upon us . 
However , until we have the outcome of the Convention and the full extent of the new role of the institution is established , it will be difficult to put direct plans into place . 
Although we have begun preparations in this budget and some minor adaptations have already taken place in this House , the reality of enlargement has not fully sunk in within the institutions . 
We have not properly begun to address the full implications of enlargement . 
Let us just look at the three places of work . 
Concerning Strasbourg , there are likely to be something like 100 new MEPs plus their assistants as well as their Council counterparts and additional Commission staff from the new members of the European Union . 
In practical terms , that means that there are likely to be 2 000 to 3 000 more people around once a month in this city . 
Even now the hotels are struggling to cope . 
I know we are known as a travelling circus but , come May 2004 , we may literally have to camp out in our tents because there will not be enough hotel rooms as a result of the enlarged Parliament . 
Combined with this the transport links - especially the air links - are far from satisfactory for current Members . 
Therefore it is absolutely essential that the Convention grasps the nettle and looks seriously at the three places of work . 
How can these be reduced ? 
It is important that the Council and the Convention recognise that they have to take this political decision . 
As a former rapporteur for Customs 2000 , I have an active interest in EU cooperation on customs in the EU and have voted for the Mollar report , which improves the exchange of information . 
In all matters relating to the area of freedom , security and justice , a balance must be struck between the freedom of the individual and the urgent need to tackle the rise in organised crime . 
It is hoped that the customs file identification database ( FIDE ) will make a positive contribution to the fight against organised crime in the EU . 
Mr President , I commend the rapporteur and welcome this excellent initiative . 
Apart from being an important social phenomenon and a way to improve psychological and physical health , sport is also an excellent educational instrument which helps young people acquire important social skills . 
That is why I strongly and warmly welcome the celebration of the European Year of Education through Sport 2004 . 
I am most looking forward to seeing the positive impact that sport will have on the lives of young people from disadvantaged communities as a result of this programme . 
It will present sport as a way of improving the social inclusion of these groups and communities . 
Nevertheless , I regret that both the Council and the Commission rejected Parliament 's amendments providing for the organisation of school competitions which would have allowed winning schools to attend the next Olympic Games in Greece . 
That said , however , I welcome the Council 's recognition of the will of Parliament on this issue . 
Mr President , the danger with foreign policy initiatives designed to counter terrorism following the 11 September disaster is that we are deluded into thinking that in the parts of the world where this strategy has been deployed everything has therefore been resolved . 
The reality is , however , rather different . 
In Afghanistan , most of the country outside Kabul is still under the control of warlords and regional leaders who continue to commit human rights abuses on a large scale , including torture and the disappearance of Afghan civilians . 
Women 's rights , as has already been mentioned , are also consistently being violated . 
Along with the detention of 600 people without charge or trial in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , that Mr Sakellariou mentioned , these are matters that we tend to forget , deluding ourselves that the problems have been and are being resolved . 
In Afghanistan , in the Herat province under the governorship of Ismail Khan , the situation has deteriorated . 
Whereas once there was a liberal , literary and cultural tradition , women are again being persecuted and barred from education , health care and the justice system . 
Even under the Taliban there was at least a semblance of central control that limited the excesses of these regional autocrats . 
Now many regions have reverted to a quasi-dictatorship and reconstruction funds are benefiting regional leaders who are committing human rights abuses politically and financially . 
UNAMA , the United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan , must stop funding these offending warlords immediately . 
Some of us in the European Parliament recently saw a film by Jamie Doran , the Scottish film-maker , backing with hard evidence the existence of a mass grave in the Mazar-i-Sharif region which might contain the remains of 3 000 prisoners of war , killed and tortured by anti-Taliban forces . 
This is an atrocity that members of the American forces witnessed and did not prevent . 
I am glad the United Nations and the European Union have now agreed to investigate this alleged crime . 
I voted for the Markov Report because I believe that the report is right to commend the role of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in aiding SMEs in the former Communist countries of Eastern and Central Europe . 
This is often unreported but critical work to build up the economic capacity of countries which have been badly underdeveloped in this sector . 
I particularly commend the report 's call for assistance to NGOs involved in the strengthening of democracy in Belarus , Ukraine and Moldova . 
Madam President , I would like to thank the Council and the Commission for that very insightful analysis of what has been going on . 
This resolution is an important step forward in favour of international law and the rule of law . 
As we speak , there are some 48 civil conflicts around the world - the majority of them in Africa - being conducted largely in the promotion of one or more supposed sectional or tribal interests . 
Sub-Saharan Africa has seen millions of people massacred , genocide committed , whole tribes ethnically cleansed in the last 20 years . 
Various sectional and commercial interests , some of them based in Europe , have tried to exploit these differences for commercial gain to procure the supply of diamonds , timber , oil , gold , cobalt , titanium and vanadium . 
Africa is supposed to be one of the richest continents in the world , inhabited by the poorest people in the world . 
How can this be so ? 
This is so because the rule of law and international law has not operated in Africa for a long time . 
If we can penalise the United States for doing something wrong with its steel , why is it that we are not able to do something in the Democratic Republic of the Congo , where millions of people have been exploited and killed for commercial gain ? 
So I welcome this resolution and I commend it . 
Mr President , I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and , as you said , speaking on behalf of the Budget Committee , we are largely supportive of this report . 
However , there are one or two amendments that cause some difficulties . 
As the rapporteur stated , Article 28 of the new financial regulation requires that any proposal submitted that has budgetary impact must be accompanied by a financial statement and an evaluation . 
This report does not do so with respect to the new figure of EUR 351 million , so my committee will only be in a position to support this report if the rapporteur tables an oral amendment to this effect . 
I hope that all the groups in this House will support this approach because objecting to the oral amendment will only lead to referral back and delay . 
Moving on to this figure , we have to recognise the constraints in the financial perspective that we have at the moment . 
Unless we use the flexibility instrument , it will be very difficult for us to meet the amounts stated . 
So it will have an impact on other policy areas within heading 4 and my plea to all parties is that , when we move on to this stage , this should not be done at the expense of other policies affecting the poorest countries . 
We do not want to give with one hand and take away with the other . 
This is precisely what the Development Council states : any funding should be additional . 
Personally speaking , I welcome whole-heartedly the contents of the Commission paper and the rapporteur 's proposals , and I applaud the fact that the EU has led the way in this area . 
HIV , tuberculosis and malaria are the world 's greatest killers and are the most serious diseases affecting the world today . 
Nearly six million people have died . 
So much EU funding is used for intangible issues , and I hope we will support this report . 
Mr President , I would like to begin by congratulating my colleague Anders Wijkman for an excellent report which took him seven months to complete , but he battled his way through it and I am very proud to be associated with him in this work in the Development Committee . 
HIV rates have increased by 100 % in the United Kingdom in the last year to 5 000 cases . 
TB has increased by 200 % to 7 300 reported cases . 
The London Borough of Brent now has a higher rate of TB than China and twice that of Brazil . 
26 300 hepatitis B infections were reported in the last four years in London alone . 
One person in 50 in east London has hepatitis B - the same level as in Nepal . 
So why the reference to poor countries ? 
I think we need to establish the connection between development and what happens in our own countries , and I now want to ask the Labour Government to act on this before it is too late . 
The Commission 's proposals will benefit European farmers in the long term and improve prospects for meaningful global trade liberalisation talks . 
I hope that we send the clear message that it is the farmers themselves who should receive a greater share of the market price , and not the increasing numbers of powerful monopolies that are controlling , in a devastating manner , our agricultural industry at the present moment in time . 
The balance we seek is to support small farmers - 90 % of the farmers in my country , Wales , are small farmers who farm in less favoured areas - and rural development and Pillar II , on the one hand , while also taking account of farmers in the Third World . 
I know the Commissioner has a personal commitment to anti-racism and the Article 13 package . 
It is kind of her to take this supplementary question . 
Very briefly , the Commissioner was unable to attend the UN World Conference on Racism but her commitment was conveyed there . 
The concern amongst NGOs and many other players in this Article 13 package is that while those Member States with race equality legislation ... 
Mr President , first of all I should like to thank my colleague Mrs Peijs for her very hard work in trying to reach suitable compromises on such a controversial and difficult report . 
Despite that , unfortunately , our view has not changed . 
The report was billed as proposals and an action programme for transport until 2010 , but I believe strongly that it contains little more than ill-researched , half-baked ideas . 
It should not surprise anyone that the majority of the ideas proposed could not be considered seriously , as the original Commission proposal was so backward-looking . 
Not only is the paper almost totally focused on rail to the detriment of all other modes of transport , but it completely fails to alleviate the precarious situation in which the aviation industry has unfortunately found itself , particularly since 11 September . 
Yet again , the age-old favourite of kerosene tax has popped up , another way of sneaking it in through the back door . 
The consumer has a right to choose his method of transport , so perhaps improving all modes , rather than just concentrating on rail , would have allowed the transport industry to compete fairly . 
Obviously , some of the most contentious issues in this paper concern the aspect of subsidiarity . 
It is clear that a European Road Safety Agency would be a total waste of taxpayers ' money and another pointless layer of bureaucracy . 
In addition , we also oppose the introduction of a European Transport Fund , as this reeks of vested interest . 
One other point on taxation and infrastructure charging will be covered by my colleague Mr Bradbourn . 
If I may finally say , this proposal was a complete waste of an opportunity by the Commission to come up with far-reaching , innovative ideas which many of us may have been able to support . 
In a nutshell , it is a retrograde , ill-thought-out proposal , which we shall be voting against . 
Mr Paasilinna 's action plan has very laudable aims in incorporating eGovernment , eLearning , eHealth and eBusiness . 
The objective of creating a competitive economy based on information will have a significant impact on growth , productivity , employment and social cohesion in Europe . 
It is one that I support wholeheartedly and has been much heralded as a main EU priority . 
However , we need to recognise that progress in this area has been far too slow . 
We need to make a much bigger impact than we have to date . 
We need to explore how we can have greater participation and ensure that we do not have a two-speed Europe nor an information underclass . 
I very much support what Mr Paasilinna said . 
Concerning Mr Van Velzen 's report on the re-use of public information , this can be a critical and very important economic driver , creating added value products and services and new prosperity for businesses , especially SMEs . 
Therefore I would urge that there be a provision for a reasonable return on investment . 
We face a dilemma as , on the one hand , we need to encourage businesses and on the other hand , businesses want information at little or no cost . 
We have to ensure that these costs do not fall at the door of the public bodies who have an obligation to produce , but have limited scope for manoeuvrability . 
I also very much support what Mrs Read said on this and would go along with her . 
I support the Malliori report with some minor exceptions . 
Although it proposes a range of non-binding measures , the stress on the role of local communities , especially police , social workers , local authority healthcare staff and others is the right emphasis . 
I am particularly supportive of the call for Member States to pay more attention to high-risk environments , like prisons , and the call for action on new ` drug patterns ' such as ` designer drug ' use , which is increasing in my constituency . 
The situation in Zimbabwe has gone from bad to worse , with enforced starvation and continuing human rights abuses and political oppression . 
However , the most urgent issue at this moment relates to action to be taken by the EU itself . 
I call upon Members to support the resolution without amendment . 
For me it is imperative that the European institutions are provided with the necessary means to complete their preparations , because enlargement must be visibly successful to the European citizen . 
Within this context , there are three main themes in my resolution . 
Firstly , to achieve greater accountability through improved presentation and transparency of the budget . 
I want to improve the quality of the spending , not just achieve the spending . 
There is a need for further development of the information on most important cost factors , to achieve greater effectiveness and sound financial management . 
Real transparency will only really be evident externally to European citizens if we have it in the first instance internally . 
Our current system does not always lend itself readily to achieving this goal . 
Decision-making is too centralised and there is not enough devolution and delegation in management structures . 
Whilst we are on transparency , one of the major new areas under consideration is funding for political parties . 
I am very disappointed that those on the other side of this House , who claim to be champions of transparency , are pushing for funding within Parliament 's budget instead of the Commission 's . 
Surely this will leave us open to allegations that we are looking after our own political interest . 
This budget line should remain with the Commission , which has the mechanisms for managing it objectively . 
The Commission is wrong to take a very short-term view and propose otherwise . 
My second main concern is that we connect and communicate more coherently with the people of Europe . 
We need to be more innovative and ambitious in almost every area of our operation , never more so than in our information and communication policies . 
When it comes to informatics , our website has to be seen more as a communication tool than just an information port . 
Parliament has to play an even greater role in the interinstitutional communication strategy executed by the Commission . 
Furthermore , we need greater endeavours by everyone to ensure active citizenship and civic participation . 
It is therefore crucial that European citizens are better informed about the activities of Parliament and how European legislation can influence their daily lives . 
To achieve this we need to consider creating a European public media space . 
My third theme is to create a flexible framework for the future operations of Parliament and other institutions . 
This is probably one of the greatest challenges for all the institutions and I welcome the ` raising the game ' proposals put forward by Parliament 's Secretary-General to improve the focus of our secretariat 's activities and give greater legislative assistance to Members . 
It has to be said , though , that this is a fairly tame set of proposals . 
Within these proposals there is one for establishing a tabling office , which is definitely a step in the right direction . 
I know there are those who have reservations about this , but if we are honest with ourselves the number of mind-bogglingly trivial amendments that we have to deal with is astonishing . 
I would have welcomed greater ambition and innovation from the Secretary-General , but I recognise the limited appetite our institution has for reform and change . 
I have come across some amazingly talented , committed and hard-working people , but for every one of them there are two who just appear to float . 
It is remarkable that this House achieves what it does and continues to evolve , given the resistance in almost every structure . 
There are few who have truly appreciated the full implications of enlargement . 
There is a belief that we can carry on doing things as we have up to now , but just do them ten times more . 
The people of the new Member States have had to show extreme flexibility in moving from the old system to the new system . 
We in the institutions need to start showing similar flexibility if we are to enhance the credibility of our institutions . 
- Mr President , the proposed deletion does not make sense . 
There is no reason to have the remainder of the paragraph as it has been suggested . 
That is a matter for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to deal with . 
The reason we have a reference here is to try to take a decision as to whether , under the proposal from the Commission , the funding should be moved to Parliament 's budget or not . 
I do not think it should be moved to Parliament 's budget , in the interests of transparency and accountability and also because it has cost implications . 
It is important that we leave it in the Commission 's budget . 
Therefore I suggest that we support Amendment No 8 as it stands . 
That law has saved an average of 7 lives every day . 
Yet lives are still being needlessly lost because those rules do not apply to coach passengers . 
Too often the European Parliament becomes bogged down with regulations which do little to help our constituents . 
This directive is our chance to make a real difference - to reduce the tragic waste of lives lost on our roads . 
That is why the British Conservatives welcome this report and congratulate all of those who have helped to bring forward these long-overdue measures . 
However , we are disappointed that the proposals do not go further . 
It is time that the safety of children on school buses was given the consideration that it so urgently needs . 
It is unacceptable that children are being taken to school on buses without seatbelts and that many children are forced to stand due to there being too few seats . 
Mr President , we are in some danger of begging the question . 
The current enlargement round depends on the outcome of eight referendums which have yet to be held across central and eastern Europe . 
Does the Commission believe that it is right for these countries to be left to take that decision on their own , or does the Commission believe that it is acceptable to intervene politically and financially in that decision ? 
So far there has been one referendum , in which the European Commission admits to having spent EUR 700 000 , a sum which in per capita terms is equivalent to spending EUR 100 million in Commissioner Prodi 's native Italy or in Commissioner Patten 's native United Kingdom . 
If the terms that we are offering these countries are so favourable , why do we need to deploy colossal resources on this scale in order to help them make up their minds ? 
Our vote is in line with the need for those running SMEs not to endure unnecessary tax burdens or inappropriate regulation . 
I fully support the report in saying that the innovation and information society will play a key role in making the EU competitive and more research should be channelled into these areas . 
Although we as democrats welcome these elections , they will be meaningless if political activists continue to be intimidated and harassed . 
The reports that the voter registration process is unfair and undemocratic are of grave concern and must be followed up by real action . 
In our resolution we urge the Cambodian authorities to allow for free and fair elections , allow freedom of expression , freedom of the media and religious freedom and more . 
But in reality we have to work harder to exert pressure on the authorities to make these changes . 
The European Union has to work in liaison with UN and other international organisations on the ground to monitor events and to try to find solutions before the country loses all hope of holding free and democratic elections . 
Currently freedom of expression is being trampled by the Cambodian authorities . 
The outbreak of violence which occurred in Phnom Penh is a reaction to a Thai actress 's comments that Angkor Wat should be returned to Thailand . 
This must be condemned . 
So far the authorities ' solution to the violence in Phnom Penh has been to arrest the journalists that broke the news story and to close borders with its Thai neighbours . 
Furthermore , Cambodia 's only independent radio station was closed with the charge of inciting riots . 
The Cambodian Government reacted to the anti-Thai feeling amongst its population by expelling hundreds of Thais from the country . 
Such abuses of freedom and clear displays of xenophobia must be stopped now . 
I commend this resolution and I call on the European Union as a whole to maintain its vigilance on the situation in Cambodia , and to do everything within its means to secure democratic elections in the summer . 
Mr President , I would like to welcome the Commission 's proposal to set up a programme to encourage student and scholar mobility around the world . 
I also wish to congratulate Mrs De Sarnez on her work on this report . 
Moreover , it will allow this sector to compete with other countries , particularly the United States and Canada , in attracting talented and motivated students and scholars from third countries . 
I reiterate the point made by other speakers that it is very important for us to develop the linguistic capacities of our students throughout the European Union . 
There is no point in talking about a Europe of diversity unless we provide people with the proper skills in languages that will enhance that goal . 
Mr President , digital literacy is of course one of the essential skills needed to participate fully in the knowledge society in which we are all living today . 
Not having access to the Internet or lacking ICT skills is becoming a barrier to social integration and to personal development . 
I agree with the rapporteur , Mr Mauro , that we should teach ICT skills from a very young age up to university level , and ensure that schools and universities and , more importantly , the teachers themselves , are capable of using all the new technologies . 
Nevertheless , we can not forget that there are many disadvantaged groups unable to benefit from traditional educational and training provisions , who are consequently becoming increasingly isolated both socially and culturally because they are not digitally literate . 
I would endorse the point that has been made already regarding the importance of maintaining the 25 % from the budget to bridge the digital divide . 
In many areas , not only in accession countries , but in my own area of Wales , which is an Objective 1 area , it is vitally important for us to maintain the 25 % , because many of those communities have not yet bridged the important digital divide that is emerging . 
I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he believes that expectations at the Seville European Council on the question of border police were raised somewhat too high . 
Does he believe that reactive approach has created the expectation amongst the European public that we will have a border police around the external border of the enlarged European Union in a very short space of time ? 
Despite the Seville Conclusions , is the Commissioner still committed to the far more comprehensive approach to asylum legislation , and indeed illegal immigration , in the Tampere Conclusions , which looked at the causes of migration to the European Union ? 
Is he still committed to that far more comprehensive approach and will that still feature in his work ? 
Mr President , I also voted against the Brok report despite my own , and my party 's , long-standing commitment to a wider Europe . 
The terms that we have offered the applicant states are unimaginative and mean . 
More than anything , the nations of Central and Eastern Europe should be able to exploit their natural advantages of low costs and cheaper exports and so price themselves into the market . 
But we are forcing them to join the euro , the forty-eight hour week , the common agricultural policy and the Social Chapter , while at the same time forcing them to devalue their recently-won democracies . 
It is for the peoples of these states to decide . 
In the cases of Malta and Slovenia , where they have already done so , I also voted ` yes ' . 
But I can not help feeling that we ought to have offered them a more generous and flexible deal . 
A further elaboration is provided in the ten-point explanation of vote submitted in writing by SOS Democracy . 
I would like to congratulate my colleague and fellow member of the Parliament 's Anti-Racist Intergroup , Mrs Cerdeira Morterero , for her work on the important and difficult issue of family reunification . 
I have voted for this report and support it in line with my past work on immigration matters - particularly my work on secondary immigration issues like the ` primary purpose ' marriage rule in the UK . 
It is important for Member States to authorise the entry of close relatives - parents , spouses or partners if there are no other means of support . 
The transposition of the directive should not lead to a lower level of protection than is currently provided by individual Member States . 
I would like to ask whether the European Union , in the light of the information conveyed to us , can make representations to the United Nations to at least respond in a constructive manner as to the future status of the Saharan people . 
Would it be possible for the European Union , through you , President , to make representations , even by letter , to the United Nations expressing our concern about this very important issue ? 
I thank Mr Collins for asking this question at such a sensitive moment in the Iraq crisis . 
I should like to ask the President-in-Office to convey the view of many of our members - including , I am sure , Mr Collins and certainly myself - that the roadmap to peace should become a reality ; and also , on our behalf , to inform Mr Solana that we should redouble our efforts to make that a reality , given the sensitivities in the region following the Iraq crisis . 
I would also echo remarks by Mr Lisi and others on the state of the industry at this moment . 
It goes without saying that none of us here would expect airlines to be operating without the proper levels of insurance cover and there is no evidence to suggest that the airlines have ever done so . 
However , the draft proposal took no account of the financial impact on the European aviation industry . 
Airlines have already endured an increase of 300 % for their insurance premiums post September 11 . 
In particular the proposal paid no regard to the financial effects on regional airlines , the general aviation sector and flying schools . 
In addition the UK Government has already estimated extra costs to the UK sector of # 50 million , a fact that the Commission is determined to ignore . 
Thirdly we have still not received a satisfactory answer regarding the practical application of this legislation on the issue of overflying . 
Comprehensive transit agreements have been in place worldwide for the last 60 years and it is therefore vital that any additional information required would have to be processed in a straightforward manner . 
The suggestion that this information could be filed with the flight plan seems totally impractical to me and does not answer the important question regarding an aircraft diverting into European airspace in unforeseen or unavoidable circumstances . 
My final point concerns third party liability cover for war and terrorism . 
The Commission strongly suggests that this legislation will open up the insurance market which is currently a virtual monopoly supplier . 
However , we have heard no detailed evidence to support this , contrary to what the Commissioner has said . 
According to the experts there are no products of this nature available to international airlines and none are ever likely to emerge . 
In conclusion , I would request that the Commission not only informs our committee of the results of the business impact assessment but also answers satisfactorily the two additional points I have raised on overflying and insurance cover before the second reading . 
Too often the Commission ignores such requests from our committee members for information and we will no longer be ignored . 
Finally , I would stress that this House should not pass legislation that can not be complied with . 
However , our continued support for the draft regulation depends on the Commission addressing the major concerns that the rapporteur raised in his speech last night . 
In particular the Commission must clarify how the rules relating to overflying will be applied in practice . 
The answers given to the committee on this matter suggest that this issue has not been adequately thought through . 
We can not support draft legislation which can not be properly and consistently applied and unless the Commission can provide satisfactory answers to how the legislation will apply to aircraft diverting into European airspace in unforeseeable circumstances or how the sector is to obtain cover for war and terrorism , we shall not be able to continue to support the proposals . 
Finally , we must insist that the Commission provides a full business impact assessment before this report returns for its second reading . 
Parliament can not legislate without knowing the effect that its actions would have on European businesses and a fragile aviation industry . 
Mr President , I wish to begin by taking this opportunity to welcome the observers . 
I am delighted to see them here in Strasbourg . 
We have spent many meetings discussing the arrival of observers in the Committee on Budgets . 
It is good to have them here to be able to listen to this important debate . 
This is one of the first issues in budgetary terms to affect them directly . 
I would also like to thank all my colleagues and the budget secretariat for their work and cooperation in producing these estimates . 
2004 is an ` E-year ' : it is a year of enlargement , an electoral year and , if the 1999 election results are anything to go by , the end-of-term year for over 56 % of Members . 
All these factors will have significant political , structural and budgetary implications . 
Thus these estimates for 2004 involve some profound changes that make budgetary planning a little more challenging . 
In addition to the challenges posed by enlargement and the elections , Parliament will also face considerable changes in 2004 , such as the possible adoption of the Statute for Members , the increase in the total number of Members , the revision of staff regulations and a reform of its administrative structure with a view to improving service to Members . 
The precise budgetary implications of some of these changes are not yet determined and , therefore , are not fully incorporated into these estimates and will have to be taken into consideration during the first reading of the 2004 budget in the autumn . 
However , I would like to expand on some of the issues I have just touched on . 
Firstly , the Statute for Members : I very much hope that we will have a Statute for Members in effect next year . 
The lack of transparency in the travel regime and the general allowance regime does more to undermine the credibility of this House than any other factor . 
Therefore , I would urge this Parliament to do its level best to ensure that the appropriations put in reserve are actually utilised for this purpose . 
Whilst I am on perks and privileges , I would like to refer to the amendment by the PPE-DE Group on the extension of the health insurance scheme to former Members . 
What is even more disappointing is that the Quaestors have sent an e-mail to all Members urging them to vote for this . 
I do not know how Mr Balfe and others can justify this particular expenditure to their constituents . 
The Bureau has had serious reservations about this , has not entered any funding for this and , owing to legal reasons , has referred it back . 
There are also important budgetary considerations . 
It is not just the question of the wisdom of agreeing a special deal for the outgoing Members of this Parliament that could be open to all sorts of legal challenges from every other former Member , but it is also morally wrong for us to go down this route . 
Therefore , I am advising this House to vote against paragraph 3 in my report , or to support the amendment tabled by the Verts/ALE Group . 
These two issues are not just technical internal matters ; they will run and run in the press of many countries leading up not just to next year 's election but for many years to come . 
Next year 's election - apart from a huge turnover of Members in this House , combined with the increase in its membership by a fifth - will be one of the biggest transitions in the history of this Parliament . 
Whilst we have made preparations in our physical environment and our linguistic regime , in the hemicycles and so on , we have not adequately addressed many very important issues concerning information , communication and IT strategies . 
We need to ensure that we counter the democratic deficit argument in terms of our say in legislation . 
Therefore , for us , the electoral turnout is of paramount importance . 
We need to do more to make the citizens aware of Parliament 's work , to increase their interest in our work and to ensure greater participation . 
For me , information policy is of key importance . 
Clear strategies and plans need to be in place now if they are to have any effect . 
This is not just Parliament 's role . 
The Commission and the Member States have let us down . 
I urge them to act together and make greater progress in this area . 
Whilst one of our main objectives in the last few years has been to get closer to the citizen , our technology is still somewhere in the 20th century . 
We appear to have a very slow , tortoise-like evolution in our information and communication policy , whilst our costs are haring away . 
Given that IT expenditure in Parliament is one of the highest compared with other institutions , I would like an explanation as to why the Europarl site is not state-of-the-art or very user-friendly , and why we have limited access to technology and video-compositing facilities . 
Having said that , I am pleased to note that we are finally making progress in Internet broadcasting . 
I believe that our proceedings in this Chamber today are being broadcast live . 
We have temporary multilingual information panels across Parliament 's building here . 
This is an important step forward on the eve of enlargement next May . 
However , concerning other issues , such as canteens , the environment in Brussels , accessibility of the buildings and the car service , we need to be a lot more ambitious . 
In the context of all of this , I welcome the efforts by the administration and the Bureau to modernise not just Parliament 's staff policy but the way we deal with staffing matters . 
We need to move from a pure administration aspect of staff matters to a more modern , strategic and forward-looking staff management and also recognise that information technology has changed the way we work and look at our administration . 
Although this will not have a major impact on the 2004 budget , I would like to invite the Secretary-General to continue to pursue his efforts in this area . 
I know there are some very difficult decisions that will have an impact on establishment plans , but it is important that we continue to evolve and look at the best way we can use our human resources . 
That brings me to budgetary rigour . 
If this is to have real meaning , we have to have more rationalisation and leaner management structures and grasp the nettle of multilingualism to improve efficiency across a number of areas . 
Parliament must continue to apply this policy and provide the best value for money for the European taxpayer as well as to continue to make the best use of available resources in the current budget . 
We can only convince people externally that we are applying budgetary rigour if we can demonstrate it internally . 
We can achieve this through improved presentation and transparency of the budget . 
Yet there is very little evidence that a number of our requests have been taken seriously . 
We have a classic situation here where ideas are crushed not by suppressing them but by ignoring them . 
There are two main areas I want to touch on briefly : we need to improve the presentation and accountability of the budget in every area , and that applies equally to the political groups . 
Could I associate myself with the comments made by Mrs Kinnock and in particular support what she has said about good governance within developing countries . 
We realise there are real development criteria here to be looked at and a need for an emphasis to be maintained . 
Mr President , it is not the first time that this Parliament has discussed issues concerning the violation of human rights by the Turkish Government . 
Unless we are seen to defend the charters and treaties which we have designed ourselves , such as the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and legislation on human rights , then we run the risk of becoming a laughing stock within the international community . 
I personally have had occasion in the past to condemn the Turkish Government for the imprisonment without trial of many among the Kurdish community , as I have also condemned the 14-year imprisonment sentence imposed on Leyla Zana and three of her colleagues . 
A retrial of Leyla Zana was ordered following a ruling of the European Court of Human Rights here in Strasbourg , a court the international community established itself , because the original trial of Leyla Zana and her colleagues was deemed not to be equitable . 
Once again we have to raise in this Parliament a further breach of human rights standards in the wake of a search of the Ankara headquarters of the Human Rights Association of Turkey . 
The Human Rights Association performs internationally recognised work in the realm of human rights in Turkey and provides Members of this Parliament with invaluable data on human rights atrocities . 
Therefore we regard it as a violation of the defence of human rights when the promotion of these standards is thus impeded . 
Is it any wonder that some of us once more ask whether Turkey 's request for membership of the European Union should be supported ? 
For the record , the Human Rights Association has found that 183 people were subjected to torture , ill-treatment and detention in Turkey in the first quarter of this year alone . 
A Union presidency that prides itself on defending the human rights of minorities and the oppressed everywhere can not stand by and allow such violations to continue . 
My colleague , Mr De Rossa , has produced a report which will assist in the proliferation of the cooperative model which when experienced by working people is seen as having key advantages . 
In the UK cooperative sector , which is now growing and has gone through a process of modernisation , this report will be welcomed . 
Mr President , in this Parliament we have discussed the CAP often , and at length . 
I hope this time we shall achieve some conclusive results . 
I am sure I speak on behalf of the whole farming community in that regard . 
I come from a country , Wales , where the per annum income of some of our farmers , especially in the less-favoured areas , 80 % of our nation , is as low now as EUR 6 000 . 
This is at a time when the large supermarkets receiving their products are recording their best profits ever . 
Such a situation is totally unsustainable . 
The plethora of amendments to the reports highlight the conflicting viewpoints on this very emotive issue . 
We must avoid a situation where a small number of the large Member States dictates the future shape of European agriculture at the expense of a more representative and democratic decision . 
The lesser regions and nations in the European Union , with endemic problems of the exodus of young people from rural communities , small family farms and less-favoured areas , should also be involved in the important decisions taking place . 
To this end , as has been mentioned by other Members , democratic representation of regions in the Council of Ministers is vital , as well as codecision for the Committee on Agriculture . 
My problem with a mixture of the current livestock support schemes and the new decoupling scheme is that it would result in an uneven playing field for many sectors and bring increased bureaucracy and more barriers for producers aiming to focus on the market . 
If this means people having to leave small family farms in less productive areas to find work , it risks undermining the very foundations on which these rural communities are built . 
I know this is a scenario that the Commissioner will be keen to avoid . 
Having discussed this topic extensively with Welsh farmers , I find that what they undoubtedly want is simpler , more market-focused policies to help farms return to profitability . 
While I do not have a photographer present like Mr Vallvé , I have a serious point to make about violence at football matches . 
Could the Commissioner tell me the latest position on the question of organised racist violence at football matches ? 
My own country , England , will shortly be playing a football match against a candidate country and risks being thrown out of the competition in question as a result of racism from its fans . 
I am particularly worried about that expression from candidate countries where racism in football matches will be on the rise . 
I very much support the thinking behind Mrs Ludford 's question that these people are both victims and illegal migrants . 
Will the President-in-Office and the Council be taking forward to the Thessaloniki Summit the idea of managed migration - mentioned in the Tampere Summit - i.e. a more coordinated and thought-through policy throughout the Member States , as was revealed in Mrs Ludford 's question ? 
In the debate this morning you answered many of the questions in your excellent reply . 
I should just like ask for your personal view on one issue . 
The Greek Presidency has been particularly good , in my view , in taking on positive issues in migration such as family unity and now integration . 
On the issue of the integration of migrants , which you mentioned in your reply , is it your view that this is an issue primarily for Member States , or do you see a valuable coordination role ? 
We sometimes forget that there are many within our European societies who want to see better integration methods employed as well as coordination . 
Is it your personal view that this is a matter for coordination , or is it primarily for Member States ? 
Mr President , I am pleased to be able to tell you that the British Conservatives will be voting against this proposal tomorrow . 
We think it is wrong in principle to take people 's money through taxation in order to synthesise an artificial sense of European identity . 
Many of my constituents , and , I dare say , even some of the constituents of the honourable Members who will be voting for the resolution tomorrow , would be horrified to learn that their taxes were subsidising European political parties whose programmes they might fundamentally oppose . 
So much , perhaps , will not surprise you . 
I accept that the British Conservative Party is in a minority in this Chamber in championing the primacy of national democracy . 
I know that most Members of this House believe that a working democracy at European Union level is feasible and desirable : that is a perfectly honourable position , but I would appeal to such Members to ask themselves whether these proposals are truly democratic . 
In a pure democracy there should be as few restrictions as possible on how people choose their representatives . 
Having been elected , politicians should be free to associate in any combinations they wish . 
They should be able to express their opinions openly and they should be allowed to raise funds through any method that their voters will tolerate . 
Laying down legal criteria for recognition dilutes democracy and infantilises the voter . 
If a politician expresses noxious views , it should be up to his constituents to remove him , not the courts , let alone his political opponents . 
If he is thought to be financially dependent on some vested interest , then that too should be a matter for his voters , not the authorities . 
The bill before the House tonight traduces these principles . 
It goes so far as to introduce a mechanism where parties which are at odds with the political convictions of the majority may be disqualified , a measure surely more in keeping with the old Warsaw Pact than with the democratic Europe to which we are notionally devoted . 
In a free political market place , good ideas will triumph , not because bad ones are suppressed , but because people are able to distinguish between truth and falsehood . 
If our constituents are not able to make that choice for themselves , their moral capacity is diminished and a measure of their freedom is lost . 
Democracy is not just a slogan , a trite word to attach to any idea of which we happen to approve . 
It has a very specific meaning and it is incompatible with the measure before us tonight . 
True Europeans , honest democrats and sincere lovers of freedom should vote against it . 
Mr President , firstly I would like to thank my colleague , Mr Schmitt , for all his hard work concerning this proposal . 
It has been nearly four years since we completed our report on the single market worldwide challenge in Parliament which favoured general support for a transatlantic common aviation area . 
I support the granting of a mandate to the Commission to negotiate an open aviation area with the US , replacing the current bilateral agreements and the ownership restrictions which prevent the industry from developing on a global basis . 
However , we should not underestimate the difficulties which may arise . 
I welcome therefore the Commission 's comments on the following points . 
Although Mrs Palacio is not here today , I would be grateful for a response in writing . 
Firstly I should like to begin by asking the Commissioner for an assurance that current bilateral aviation agreements with third countries will neither be renounced nor frozen for an indefinite period while Community agreements are hammered out . 
It is vital that normal business be allowed to continue . 
Secondly , can the Commission give us its assurance that during the negotiations it will not be lured by the US negotiators into agreeing , as a first step , to a so-called ` early harvest ' which , whilst satisfying the current US negotiating requirements , would make the achievement of full liberalisation much less likely ? 
Thirdly , how will the Commission address the major issue of the massive cash injection to the US industry of USD 11 billion since 11 September and in addition the Fly America and CRAF programmes with a combined value of USD 775 million ? 
These schemes distort competition and are incompatible both with existing bilateral regimes and any future liberalisation between Europe and the US . 
Fourthly , can the Commissioner also assure us that the airline industry will have a direct role to play in these negotiations , as is the current international practice ? 
Finally , given that a successful EU-US agreement would be a template for further liberalisation on a global basis , can the Commission assure us that no further mandates will be sought by it until a successful agreement is reached with the United States ? 
This report coordinates but does not seek to harmonise either social security or taxation systems , which are the responsibility of Member States . 
The EPLP has not supported Amendment No 48 because it is outside the scope of Article 42 , which deals with social security systems , and introduces the idea of double taxation . 
Similarly , Amendments Nos 1 , 2 , 43 and 45 seek to go beyond social security coordination and therefore could not be supported by the EPLP . 
The report highlights for example the continuing high levels of unemployment and poverty in some Member States and rightly calls for solutions to these problems to be treated as a priority in Community policies , not least in the forthcoming mid-term review of the CAP , the Structural Funds and the Stability Pact . 
The EPLP will abstain on Amendments Nos 2 , 6 and 17 , as they are unclear on the Europe-wide right to take collective action , including the right to strike . 
The EPLP supports long-term solutions on the management of collective actions across the EU , which will provide a fair solution to both EU workers and consumers . 
Real progress should also be made in mainstreaming disabled people 's rights within our development cooperation policy . 
MEPs in the committee have stressed that the outcome of the UN process must be a legally binding convention with an effective monitoring mechanism . 
The length of this report makes it clear that the European Union , which constantly preaches respect for fundamental rights to the rest of the world , is not yet free from breaches to these rights within its own borders . 
As the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Culture , Youth , Education , the Media and Sport for this report , I am happy that in paragraph 38 Italy is finally and explicitly named and shamed concerning its media concentration and the influence in this regard of its Prime Minister , without any rules at all on conflict of interest being adopted . 
I say I am glad because the majority of Members on the Culture Committee sadly voted against making an example of Italy for its bad record in media concentration , which poses a very serious threat to democracy everywhere . 
We all know that individual media conglomerates control a significant portion of the national news media in several European countries : Bertelsmann and Kirch in Germany , Rupert Murdoch 's empire in the United Kingdom and Vivendi in France . 
But Berlusconi 's combination of media influence and political power is unique in Europe . 
A recent report on media conflict of interest in Italy by the NGO Reporters Without Borders quotes Freimut Duve , the OCSE 's representative for media freedom , who has repeatedly condemned the concentration of so much of the Italian news media in the Prime Minister 's hands . 
The OSCE says it is both a challenge to the European constitutional architecture and a bad example for new democracies in transition . 
The Council of Europe 's Parliamentary Assembly also holds that the potential conflict of interest between the holding of political office by Mr Berlusconi and his private economic and media interests is a threat to media pluralism . 
I could elaborate further , but I am sure you all understand the problems that media ownership concentration in Italy poses to democracy and freedom of information . 
I sincerely hope , therefore , that you all agree that the case of Italy should be included in this report . 
Mr President , I stand here tonight conscious that in Cancún the Commissioner and others will have to battle to protect very poor people . 
I would like you , Mr President , to count to ten . 
What is it that these people can do to make all of us better off ? 
Because we want to protect our cows and our farmers and our industry , we give more money to a cow each day than 600 million people have to live on . 
In Cancún we can make a difference . 
When I came to this Parliament from the British House of Commons , I came with great expectations . 
I came with the expectations that the European Union meant what it said . 
I came with the expectation that the Doha Round was a development round . 
I came with the expectation that the Commissioner sitting there would have a spine to go and fight , that Mr Lamy , who had introduced ` Everything But Arms ' , would go and fight . 
Well , I want to see them fight . 
Because if they do not fight , what are their lives about ? 
We must understand that link and we must start doing something about it . 
I come from a very privileged background in Sri Lanka , and I know people here come from very privileged backgrounds around the world . 
We must understand that link and have the spine and the courage to fight to allow people - who can do things such as grow and market their food and create rural agriculture in the developing world - to export produce . 
We should stop protecting our cows and our farmers in Europe inefficiently , and stop destroying our own customer base . 
Unless we are able to do that , we are going to have to pick up a huge bill . 
[ Translation : ` For many years the EU has been speaking about language diversity and respect for minorities . 
Today , through Mr Ebner 's report we are at last putting that into practice and supporting language learning and multilingualism , including minority languages , like the language I am speaking now , Welsh , my mother tongue . ' ] 
Mr President , I would like to thank the interpreters for translating the first part of my address - which was in Welsh - to be understood by the rest of the Members here . 
I wish to begin by congratulating and thanking Mr Ebner for adventuring in the task of writing a report on European minority languages and presenting so many constructive ideas to further respect for multilingualism in Europe . 
We all know how sensitive this issue of minority languages is in some countries which consider them a threat not only to the integrity of their state culture but also to their territorial integrity . 
The issue of minority languages is a matter very close to my heart , because I am , myself - as are many others in this Chamber - a speaker of a minority language . 
I welcome the fact that minority languages are back on the European agenda . 
For many years we have been in a stalemate over the legal funding for minority languages in Europe . 
Minority languages must be sustained and promoted if we are to live up to the claim of a Europe of diversity . 
At this important juncture in Europe 's future , with new members joining the Union , the European Parliament is again leading the cause for greater respect for minority-language speakers . 
I wish Mr Ebner well with his report . 
. Mr President , as we have heard , the 2004 budget will have some profound changes as a result of the historic enlargement due to take place in May 2004 . 
My objective has been to balance the needs of the institutions so that they can fulfil their tasks and equip themselves to meet the challenges that will be presented by an EU of 25 Member States . 
At the same time , however , we must ensure that the principles of budgetary rigour and prudence are at the core of all our budgetary decisions . 
The budget will present the other institutions with major challenges , because it will significantly change many of them . 
Some of the institutions will receive additional 50 % increases in their budgets , which will lead to doubling or trebling of the staff within them . 
This will require sensitive and intensive management to absorb this change seamlessly . 
Therefore , I would like to start by welcoming the submission of the Third Report of the Secretaries-General on the evolution of Heading 5 . 
This has become a useful tool for the decision-making process , and although we have an annual budgetary procedure , it is important to be aware of the likely multi-annual situation , so that the right strategic choices can be made , for example in buildings and staff policy . 
I would like to remind everybody that we call upon the Commission and the other institutions that we have this annual report submitted to us by 1 September every year . 
The Council 's reading of the 2004 budget has been quite a surprise . 
I am totally perplexed by the Council 's approach : there does not appear to be a clear strategy other than the doubling of the margin . 
On the one hand , the Council continues to apply an across-the-board approach , of which the Parliament has always been critical . 
In the past we have said that the Council made horizontal cuts in the institutions without looking into real needs . 
This has happened again this year on the Commission 's budget . 
On the other hand , however , the Council has been surprisingly generous , to the extent that I have to question whether all requests that it has endorsed are well justified . 
This year it will be for the Parliament to ensure that the budgetary rigour is applied and a more critical examination of needs is undertaken . 
Therefore , I would like to ask the President-in-Office 's opinion about the approach that I have taken on his decisions . 
We will be proposing to put money in reserve for two committees - about a million euro for each committee - and to cut back further posts in most of the other budgets . 
My concern is that the Council has agreed to everything to do with enlargement , and enlargement should have resulted in greater economies of scale . 
I am a firm supporter of enlargement , but that does not mean that everything that is demanded is required . 
It is important that we do not have ` carte blanche ' as regards enlargement and at the same time reject existing posts and existing staff policy issues - such as upgrading - which are important for the staff who are already working . 
We need to have a balance here . 
I do not wish to go into detail on all of the Council 's decisions , but I do want to ask about buildings , which is the second biggest item of expenditure after staff . 
I want to understand the Council 's strategy . 
We know that the margin in Heading 5 will be under pressure from 2006 or 2007 onwards . 
However , we have a considerable margin in 2004 . 
I was disappointed that the Council rejected my proposal to use this to finance buildings to cater for enlargement . 
This would lead to more savings , including savings for taxpayers . 
On buildings we do not need piecemeal solutions , we need to take a multi-annual strategic approach . 
This issue has been dragging on for some time and it has implications for all institutions and for our staff . 
Finally , I would like to call upon all the other institutions to take account of some of the changes and demands affecting them in the light of enlargement . 
They should start planning now and start introducing controls that are absolutely essential . 
. To make speed-limiters mandatory in a wide range of vehicles , effectively imposing a speed limit of 62 mph or less throughout the EU , is far too prescriptive . 
The main aims of the proposal -- to improve road safety and reduce environmental pollution -- are worthy ones , but there is not sufficient evidence that this is the best way to achieve them . 
Conservative MEPs also fear it is inevitable that , in due course , there will be calls for speed limiters to be introduced for private cars , which really would be far beyond what would be acceptable for most people . 
. Mr President , I would like to begin where Mr Mulder left off by first thanking all my colleagues too . 
I would particularly like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and all the staff for their support and their contributions . 
I would especially like to thank the chairman , Mr Wynn , for his support . 
This particular budget is for an historic year , 2004 , which will see not only enlargement of the European Union to 25 Member States , but also European elections . 
My main aim for this budget has been to equip all the other institutions to meet the challenges of enlargement and to ensure proper functioning after accession takes place . 
However , I have to admit to being somewhat disappointed that the economies of scale that I had hoped for as a result of enlargement have not been evident . 
I believe that enlargement has been used in some cases as an excuse by some institutions to create posts for which there is little justification . 
It is a pity , therefore , that the Council did not put sufficient emphasis on securing greater efficiencies . 
As I have said before , the Council has been quite generous to all the institutions in its draft budget and , as a consequence , Parliament has had to correct this position . 
I am pleased to say that my amendments , which were adopted , will lead to operational improvements and increased efficiency . 
One of my objectives for this budget was to improve transparency and to achieve greater accountability . 
In this vein , I am calling upon all the institutions to adopt measures which will lead to these objectives being fulfilled . 
To do this , we need to ensure that their policies , procedures and systems are reviewed regularly , especially in relation to reimbursement of travel and subsistence allowances . 
It appears to be an annual occurrence that one or other of the EU institutions is charged with wrongdoing or lack of control in relation to financial management . 
It is therefore important that every institution ensures that it has best practice and sound financial management procedures in place . 
When it comes to allowances , it is critical that there should be clearer rules governing reimbursement and action to be taken in cases of misdemeanour . 
It is imperative , in the interest of the credibility of all the other institutions , that this be done and that all the institutions act now . 
I believe that all the other institutions need to follow suit , to ensure greater transparency and accountability . 
Let me give you just one example from Parliament . 
I spent quite a lot of time pushing for this internally and I visited the Swedish Parliament to look at their system , where they have made a great deal of progress . 
I have also looked into some of the smaller issues such as the car service for Members . 
We have looked at numerous proposals from the administration , some of which would have been very cost-effective . 
Yet unfortunately these proposals have had a very short life-span , because they were unacceptable to certain parties . 
It is because of this lack of transparency and accountability that we have a situation where a majority of the Committee on Budgets was totally against a pilot scheme for a Members ' car service . 
The scheme proposed instead would reimburse Members an additional 50 euro a week for the cost of taxis . 
This is complete nonsense , because we already have an adequate daily allowance to cover such costs . 
However , I understand this is to go ahead despite the huge misgivings that I and many other Members have , because the Bureau has approved it . 
It comes from a budget line that is underspent . 
This sort of example of piecemeal decision-making does not really give a very good impression of Parliament and it is very damaging to the public standing of this House . 
If we had more transparency and accountability , decisions like this would be avoided . 
President , when I spoke in March , I expressed my reservations about the funding of political parties being included in Parliament 's budget . 
My concern was that we would leave ourselves open to allegations of feathering our nests and being seen to be looking after our own political interest . 
These concerns appear to have been vindicated , since the funding of political parties has now been included in our budget and already the proposed amount has been increased from 4.2 to 8.4 million as a result of Mr Watson 's amendment . 
Now there are moves to take this amount out of reserve and put it on the line , before we have a clear set of rules governing the deployment of these funds and a clear code of conduct . 
Do not get me wrong . 
We all want the European political parties to have the necessary means to function and to be independent of Parliament and the political groups . 
I would urge them to withdraw these proposals so that we can put a clear set of rules in place and make the statute operational . 
Another controversial item , and one that has been raised here before , is the question of health insurance for former Members . 
My position on this is quite clear . 
I have said previously that I do not think it is a good use of taxpayers ' money and I hope that the study that is undertaken will prove this point . 
Now I just want to say a couple of words about some of the other amendments which have been tabled , beginning with the WTO . 
I am extremely concerned about further extending Parliament 's budget , which is meant to be purely for administrative purposes , to non-parliamentarians from other parts of the world . 
What this amendment is proposing is to extend funding from Parliament 's budget to other participants at the WTO . 
We just need to deal with whatever glitches and hitches appear in the budget . 
At the end of the day it would be quite cumbersome for Parliament to take it all on board , as this would also have internal implications for staffing and so on . 
I do not really understand the motive or purpose of the proposal and I have heard no arguments or rationale in support of it . 
I do not find it very helpful at this late stage to put forward something like this and I would like to know more about why it is proposed to put this money in reserve . 
Finally , on the amendment on bicycles from Mrs Buitenweg , given what I have said about cars , I am all in favour and I think we should all get on our bikes now . 
Anyway , to conclude , can I say that one of our fundamental aims has been to bring ourselves closer to citizens . 
Can I say that I am extremely frustrated at the pace of progress with our information and communication policy . 
We need to do more to make citizens aware of our work , to increase their interest in it and to increase their participation . 
This amendment aims at offsetting the cost of amendments adopted , so that Parliament remains within the self-imposed ceiling of 20 % of Heading 5 . 
A number of amendments rejected in the Committee on Budgets have been retabled and , if they are adopted , their cost will have to be offset by adjusting Amendment No 709 accordingly . 
We are therefore left with only a p.m. , so we can not retain the wording of the paragraph in its current form . 
Mr President , I should like to refer to some very unpleasant , untruthful and personal remarks made by Mr Balfe following the budget vote in Strasbourg last month . 
Mr Balfe had demanded an extension of the medical insurance to former Members , which was refused by the Committee on Budgets . 
As one of the budget rapporteurs for 2004 I see myself as a servant of this Parliament whose main responsibility is to defend the decisions taken by this House and , in this case , also those of the Budgets Committee . 
My primary objective has been to ensure that there is value for money for the European taxpayer and a desire to maintain the reputation and the dignity of this House in the eyes of the European public . 
First , the accusation by Mr Balfe against me that I have entirely frustrated the decision taken by the Bureau is an accusation against the entire Budgets Committee , because all of his demands were put to the vote . 
Second , Mr Balfe made a reference to , and I quote ` the comparatively inexpensive scheme ' . 
This is an astonishing statement given than the initial estimates are far over EUR 1 000 000 and it is costing us EUR 60 000 just for a study to establish the actual figures : hardly peanuts . 
Third , with respect to the use by existing Members of current schemes , I have to say that I am completely baffled . 
Is Mr Balfe suggesting transparency for all Members in the Budgets Committee , or does he want to establish a register for everybody ? 
Is he proposing to amend the current scheme ? 
Surely he is not concerned about the cost ! 
I suggest he puts forward proposals for next year 's budget so that we can make whatever amendments are needed . 
Finally , in the name of all of my colleagues on the Budgets Committee who I believe take their responsibilities extremely seriously , I would like to say that these allegations are not worthy of someone holding a senior position in this House such as a Quaestor and I believe he brings this House and that office into disrepute . 
Mr President , I should like to refer to the recent crisis in Sri Lanka . 
Mr Cushnahan cogently pointed out that , at a time where it is now possible , after 23 years of civil war , to bring peace to the country , the President declared a state of emergency once the proposals for peace had been put forward by the rebel Tamil Tiger groups . 
You , Mr President , Mr Poettering and other Members of this House have met the Prime Minister , who as we speak is with Mr Bush in Washington . 
Parliament ought to be recalled back in Colombo . 
There is no justification for the prorogation of Parliament , nor for the declaration of a state of emergency , nor for sending troops out onto the streets . 
The European Parliament might well ask that democracy , the rule of law , parliament and government be reinstituted in Sri Lanka . 
Mr President , I should like to start by congratulating my Spanish colleagues of all political persuasions on their enthusiasm for the subjects of their former colonies . 
However , I wish my country would sometimes stand up for its national interests in the way my Spanish colleagues seem to , irrespective of politics . 
Having said that , we heard Mr Rod ask why we should not have two regulations so that we can send the money where the poor are . 
Well , they are in Asia . 
And there are 800 million of them . 
If the two regulations are supposed to send the money where the poor are , why are we sending EUR 247 million from Asia to Latin America ? 
I know that the European Parliament is famous for standing on its head but it is an extraordinary example of how we have done so again . 
We need simple legislation that we can understand , that our voters can understand , so that we can connect with our electorate . 
Creating two duplicate regulations , going through the entire process , the enormous amount of bureaucracy and , at the same time asking the Commission to simplify its procedures , to decentralise and so on , is such a contradiction . 
Why are we even considering this ? 
Forgive me for saying this , but are we considering this to be nice to the Spanish ? 
I have to say that I am very nice to the Spanish most of the time but on this occasion I shall not be . 
Mr President , I was not surprised that the European Year of People with Disabilities was a success . 
Anyone who has consulted and spoken with NGOs , activists and community groups on the ground , as I have in my constituency , will know that the people who represent our 37 million fellow Europeans are very clear in what they demand from us . 
At the weekend , I was told by one group in my constituency that they are happy that the European Year will have some follow-up , but they want clarity about what that will be . 
As Mr Bouwman said , they were promised an employment directive that would be implemented by Member States , and yet they see the Member States still dragging their feet . 
That is not to say that the Commission and colleagues have not pushed those Member States to implement the employment directive in its disability provisions , but it is not being implemented . 
They are therefore concerned that implementation will be lacking in other spheres . 
They want to see action after 2003 , not merely more words . 
Madam President , I also wish to congratulate both the rapporteurs on good and timely reports . 
Therefore , I welcome this new regulatory package as it proposes changes by generating a consistent approach with the aim of liberalising the telecoms market . 
It provides a unique opportunity for all the governments to set the standards in a developing market and to finally begin fulfilling the goals we set at Lisbon , which have been all too slow to be realised . 
Today 's buzzword in the telecoms arena is ` implementation ' . 
This is the key issue , more so now than before , as the sector is showing positive signs of stabilising . 
However , I fully support the rapporteur in questioning the Commission as to why it is that only five Member States have met the deadline for the transfer of the new regulatory package this year and why the Commission has been very slow in responding to this . 
What exactly is it proposing to do ? 
The Commission needs to be tougher . 
We need action from the Commission , not just words , because delays not only penalise both new entrants and incumbents , but also put up barriers to the National Regulatory Authorities and the collation of information from the market players . 
We have to move on and we need proper market analysis on which we can base further action . 
I am also extremely disappointed at the slow development of broadband . 
I have been contacted by numerous people in the West Midlands who have expressed their concerns about this moving at a snail 's pace and the need to address that , especially in some rural areas . 
I thank the Commissioner for that very comprehensive answer and congratulate all those in the EU who have come to the aid of the Iraqi people at a very difficult time . 
One is to ask the Commissioner 's view on how he sees the aid emanating from the Madrid Conference fitting in with our other aid commitments , particularly in areas in Africa and elsewhere where there are conflicts which receive less media coverage but in which people are still suffering . 
How does he see those conflicts being resolved ? 
Secondly , what is his view of the implementation of existing humanitarian aid during the humanitarian phase ? 
Is he satisfied with that aspect , given the political pressures from individual Member States on the whole approach to Iraq ? 
Release may be conditioned by guarantees to appear for trial . ' 
Member States must adhere to directives laid down by the EU , and France is clearly contravening , rather than adhering to , directives that are laid down in law . 
Would the Council representative therefore pursue this matter in the Council and consider bringing France before the Court of Human Rights ? 
I want to stress what the Commissioner said : this is a tangible benefit making free movement a reality for ordinary EU citizens . 
While congratulating the rapporteur , I should also like to ask -- if this card is to become a reality -- that the Commission and all MEPs stress to Member State governments that they must not see this merely as a technical step forward . 
Advertising is needed , and , as Mr Crowley said , proper training for doctors so that they accept the health card and ensure that this is seen as the success story that it so obviously is . 
There are very few criticisms here . 
Let us go out and publicise the fact that the health card is a benefit that makes free movement , as set out in the Treaties , something of a reality . 
Mr President , I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur , Mr Lisi . 
It goes without saying that I , along with my colleagues , expect passengers travelling on European airlines to be treated in a fair and respectful manner . 
I also firmly believe that if their travel plans are disrupted and it is the fault of the airline , then that airline should take full responsibility . 
Sadly this regulation , in its present state , will badly damage our airline industry and , in particular , our regional and low-cost carriers , thereby threatening jobs and reducing the opportunities the consumer has come to expect in terms of choice and a competitive level of airfares . 
It is therefore with regret that I will be unable to support this regulation , for the following reasons . 
First , in the final draft of Article 6 , referring to delays , the regulation is seriously flawed . 
The exclusion of extraordinary circumstances places an unacceptable financial burden on the carrier . 
Situations such as industrial disputes , air traffic delays , adverse weather conditions and possible terrorist threats can not be foreseen by any airline . 
Therefore to include full reimbursement , as well as a return flight to the first point of departure , is wholly unacceptable . 
To suggest that the airlines will be able to obtain compensation from third party providers is a myth . 
Maybe they will apply to heaven if it is a weather problem . 
Secondly , referring to Article 5 on cancellations , I echo my previous points . 
The impact of this regulation has taken no account of Parliament 's support in strengthening our regional airports . 
Nor has the Commission thought through the impact on charter carriers , which often have only one or two flights a week to particular destinations . 
An extra GBP 1 billion of costs for the airlines will not benefit passengers but will penalise them by increasing the price of tickets and reducing choice . 
The irony is that none of these rules would apply to third country airlines flying into the EU . 
If the Commission wanted to give our business away to the rest of the world , then it has done a jolly good job . 
. -- Mr President , if this amendment is adopted , it should go after paragraph 28 and not after paragraph 4 , because that deals with other institutions . 
This budget achieves value for money , and we can congratulate ourselves that we have achieved that juggling act and managed to finance enlargement without breaking the ceiling in heading 5 . 
This budget fundamentally completes the process of enlargement budgeting and it is a good result for the European taxpayer . 
In the final draft of Article 6 referring to ` delays ' , the exclusion of ` extraordinary circumstances ' places an unacceptable financial burden on the carrier . 
Also , to suggest that airlines will be able to obtain compensation from third party providers is fanciful . 
Referring to Article 5.3 on cancellations , this only applies in the case of compensation but does not apply to matters such as re-routing . 
The Commission failed to provide a financial impact assessment . 
An estimated GBP 1 billion of extra costs for the airlines will not benefit passengers but will penalise them by increasing the price of tickets and reducing choice . 
None of these rules will apply to third country airlines flying into the EU , rather , they will damage competition . 
Mr President , I support the British initiative to highlight those airlines that are not allowed into UK airspace . 
At this time we can not presume that the recent air accident in Egypt was caused by mechanical failure . 
It is therefore prudent for us to await the accident investigation report . 
However , I agree with the Commission that travel agents and tour operators should inform passengers more fully about the airlines which are part of their holiday package . 
Perhaps we can do something about that . 
There must also be a far better means of exchange of information , whether it be through the International Civil Aviation Organization , the EU or Member States . 
In addition , I believe that the Maes Report on ramp checks , which is coming to its conclusion , should address some of the issues . 
With regard to the transfer of data , we should remember that 3 000 people lost their lives in those horrendous attacks on 11 September , and many of them were from the European Union . 
I agree that better cooperation between the US and the EU could probably solve problems before they arise . 
With regard to the suspension and delay of flights over the Christmas and New Year period , they were clearly decisions that had to be made by national governments . 
In my view , it is therefore necessary to look again at the Lisi Report , which has just gone through Parliament , as regards current non-reference to matters coming under . 
Mr President , I begin by thanking our rapporteur , Mr Pex , although he is absent this evening , for his work on this very important report , which we broadly support . 
It is extremely important to have legislation in place under which those responsible for unlawful oil or chemical discharges from ships can be prosecuted . 
We are no longer prepared to put up with reckless behaviour , which too often has resulted in irreparable damage to the environment . 
Nevertheless , it is necessary to differentiate between intentional and accidental pollution . 
The United Kingdom already has criminal sanctions in place for unlawful discharges from ships , as specified in the Marpol Convention , and matters relating to criminal law should , as such , fall within the competence of the Member State and not the Community . 
Furthermore , as there have been no practical difficulties between Member States in deciding where a prosecution should take place , this proposal should be removed from the framework decision . 
Finally on this point , the introduction of a European coastguard is neither practical nor necessary , nor is it consistent with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea . 
British Conservative MEPs will oppose those amendments . 
As regards the Poignant Report , in principle we support this proposal and accept that the new regulation will improve cooperation between the administrators of maritime registers in the Member States . 
As I clearly pointed out prior to the vote in the debate of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , British Conservative MEPs will vehemently oppose the integration of the emblem of the European Union onto our Red Ensign . 
It will do nothing to enhance security and could even make EU-registered ships potential targets . 
In addition , identification is not an issue , as all vessels carry their unique IMO numbers as well as the name of their ports of registry . 
To conclude , registration principles are determined internationally in the United Nations and IMO system , which is global rather than European . 
The EU is not a nation-state -- fortunately -- and it is doubtful whether anyone else would recognise an EU flag in terms of the international conventions . 
The UK already has criminal sanctions in place for unlawful discharges as specified in the MARPOL Convention and , as such , matters relating to criminal law should fall within the competence of the Member State and not the Community . 
We do not believe , however , that the introduction of a European Coastguard is either practical or necessary , since it is inconsistent with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea . 
For this reason we were unable to support amendments calling for the creation of a European Coastguard . 
Proposals that make it easier for ships from an EU Member State to move in and out of Community ports , thus facilitating the free movement of goods , are to be welcomed . 
However , Conservative MEPs voted against amendments calling for Member States to display the emblem of the European Union i.e. a circle of 12 gold stars on a square blue background -- in the corner of their flags because these amendments will do nothing to improve maritime safety and could even make EU-registered ships potential targets . 
Mr President , I too would like to thank Mr De Rossa for this very important report . 
The illegal bushmeat trade is devastating endangered species and habitats in many developing countries . 
I welcome and endorse one recommendation in particular : to step up measures to detect and prevent illegal imports of bushmeat into Europe . 
Incredibly , smuggling illegal meat into Europe through ports and airports is still relatively easy despite the fact that this almost certainly caused the devastating foot-and-mouth epidemic in 2001 , to which Mr Parish referred . 
The European Union must set an example here and send a clear message to smugglers that any bushmeat they bring to ports of entry will be detected and they will be prosecuted . 
Regrettably , this violent , profitable trade continues unabated and thousands of tonnes of illegal bushmeat , from West Africa in particular , is slipping undetected into Europe each year , with organised gangs going unpunished . 
It must be said that the United States is showing us the way here : anyone who has recently travelled through a US airport will undoubtedly have been confronted by a hardworking beagle sniffing every piece of luggage for imported foodstuffs . 
I implore the European Commission to get tough with Member States . 
Finally I also urge colleagues to reject irrelevant amendments to this report which seek to defend local European hunting practices and will inevitably weaken its recommendations . 
Thank you Commissioner for that comprehensive answer . 
I do not want to pre-empt the Commission 's June 2004 communication , but would like to ask the Commissioner 's personal view on whether he is hopeful that , within that communication , some progress on the links between Member States and the European Union and sending countries will be established . 
He may know that the issue of managed migration is now coming to the fore of the agenda in the European Union , partly due to his work and that of many others . 
I would like to ask his personal opinion on whether he thinks , when the communication is finally published , that he or anyone else will have some positive news to give us on the issue of managed migration and the specific partnerships between our countries and others . 
He may know of examples concerning the United Kingdom and the Philippines , which has sent health workers , and issues of that nature . 
Does he have anything to say about that ? 
Mr President , I would also like to begin by thanking our rapporteursand shadow rapporteursfor their work on this very detailed and complex report , which , of course , applies to upper air space . 
Further to the last Council common position -- which my Delegation broadly supported -- and the subsequent conciliation procedure , we are now able to fully support this regulation . 
During the process , one of our key objections concerned the inclusion of military operations and training . 
I am delighted that this sovereign competence is now excluded . 
Had it not been excluded there could have been an adverse impact on NATO operations , so I am also delighted that this is no longer the case . 
However , care needs to be taken during implementation that the newly-created bodies -- i.e. the single sky committee and the industry consultation body -- do not duplicate their efforts , thereby causing unnecessary confusion . 
It is quite clear that the aviation industry can not continue to sustain the loss of USD 4 billion per year due to airspace congestion across Europe , and I believe that this regulation will go some way towards addressing this . 
Eurocontrol should also be congratulated for its initiative , put in place in January 2002 , which introduced reduced vertical separation . 
I understand that we have increased capacity by some 30 % and reduced delays to the levels we saw in 1998-1999 . 
However , it does behove certain countries and areas , such as France , Italy , Spain , southern Germany and Switzerland , which are responsible for 44 % of the delays , to make radical improvements nationally if this regulation is going to succeed . 
Another area which needs to be addressed urgently is the shortage of air-traffic controllers across Europe . 
In conclusion , with this regulation we should improve safety , efficiency and the economics of air traffic management , which , as air traffic across Europe continues to grow , is good news for the industry , for business and for the consumer . 
Mr President , a number of references were made to us , the British Labour MEPs . 
We do not want to see a long-hours culture ; we want to see higher productivity . 
We want to see working people have the kind of work that allows them the leisure they deserve . 
We fully support the repeated statements by our government stating that the opt-out should not be abused and that the exercise of the opt-out must be truly voluntary to be legal under UK law . 
We need clarification of the SIMAP and Jaeger judgments . 
As British Labour MEPs , we also believe that it is inappropriate for infringement proceedings to be taken against the UK Government . 
We have tabled Amendment 1 , which deletes the recommendation that the UK Government should be subject to infringement proceedings . 
However , we believe in the principle of working time and want to see progress , particularly in the health sector . 
Mr President , I applaud the development of the rapporteur 's ideas in recent years on this subject . 
I enjoyed working with him in the Committee on Development and Cooperation on this report . 
There is no single holistic approach to the management of public utilities that fits all developing countries . 
Poverty , diseases and lost economic opportunities have increased because of the state management of public utilities by bureaucrats whose first priority is job security and not economic efficiency : just look at the failed Soviet system . 
It is imperative to get the private sector involved in the provision of public services in developing countries in order to increase cost efficiency as well as economic growth . 
The private sector alone can generate sustainable employment and is the driving force of every modern economy . 
Public utilities in developing countries should be privatised through open international procedures that are transparent , quick and not onerous , and able to meet sustainable development and public interest criteria . 
Ideally , the award of a tender should be the sole task of an independent , foreign financial institution , acting alone , according to international norms and reporting conditions , and one that has no conflict of interest in that country or in that project . 
I have studied this process for many years and have sadly come to a very sad and bitter conclusion : many foreign direct investors are put off by tedious and laborious tender procedures , consultants ' reports , evaluation committees and committees to evaluate other evaluations -- devices constructed by officials of developing countries and consultants to international bodies to earn money either through fees or corruption . 
These procedures are an open door to the impoverishment of countries through delay , vacillation and corruption . 
The more decision-makers there are in the loop , the more corruption there is . 
Such corruption takes various forms . 
The first form is that of accelerating a decision and overlooking a better bid by making payments to high government officials , such as are to be found in East Asian countries . 
The other form of less detectable corruption to be found in South Asian countries and Africa is making payments to block the success of another more favourable bid by a competitor . 
In the former case , despite the corruption and the more inferior services now provided , the job gets done and some form of utility is provided , while in the latter nothing ever gets done and the economy suffers . 
The former is endemic in the North and East Asian countries , while the latter is epidemic in South Asia and Africa . 
When large transnational companies are encouraged to invest , through foreign direct investment , in developing countries , they should also be empowered to make offset investments . 
By offset investments I mean that they should be able to put a part of that investment into social capacity-building , into schools , hospitals , training colleges and youth centres , so that there is a public element in the privatisation of a public utility whereby everybody around the utility benefits . 
This is the way forward , with transparency and openness . 
Mr President , the European Union must raise concerns about the unhealthy practices that have developed alongside the industrialisation and mass transportation of livestock in parts of Asia . 
Animal disease now travels far and fast in types of farming and food distribution . 
That makes it very difficult to control . 
In the age of global trade , retailers and manufacturers source their raw materials where they are cheapest , and the European poultry industry has struggled to compete with prices from south-east Asia and Brazil , where labour costs are very much lower . 
The UK alone imported 36 649 tonnes of poultry meat from Thailand in the first ten months of last year , a 50 % increase on the previous year . 
But in the light of this flu virus we must maintain the strictest food safety standards here in the European Union , ensuring that all imports meet those very same high standards . 
Modern food systems mean that animal diseases travel far and travel quickly . 
The outbreak of avian flu in the Netherlands last year illustrated how hard the disease can be to contain . 
Does the Commission believe that all health authorities in the European Union would spot avian flu and be able to react decisively enough if it arrived on this continent ? 
One of the report 's most illustrative points is that , while agricultural incomes rose by 7 % in the EU between 1995 and 2002 , this was at the expense of a 15 % decrease in the number of farms . 
That means that small farms have been swallowed up by increasingly large farms and production that has become more intensive . 
With consumers demanding more information on the means by which their food is produced , this trend is one that must be addressed . 
Large farms , selling bulk commodities , with pollution risks and herd health problems represent a future that we must work to avoid . 
Whilst the figures may continue to suggest that incomes are growing , they hide the impact of increasingly intensive farming methods . 
This must be borne in mind each time the European Parliament -- and more importantly , the European Commission -- consider direct aid via the CAP . 
There is something seriously amiss with a system that continues to pump money into the pockets of some of Europe 's largest and wealthiest landowners through lavish subsidies . 
The Duke of Westminster -- Britain 's richest man -- receives EUR 1300 per day in agricultural subsidies , while small Welsh farmers are struggling to get by with as little as EUR 7000 per year . 
Your colleague , Commissioner Vitorino , has also answered this question very comprehensively and skilfully in the past , arguing that the wild numbers predicted for Portugal when it joined the European Union were way off the mark . 
We are now witnessing the same phenomenon with predictions for movement of labour from the accession countries . 
My point is that I would not ask the Commission to give out information which it has no legal requirement to provide . 
The noble aim of enlargement has led to confusion among people on the ground -- European citizens -- who are now anxious about the extreme predictions of the numbers of people who will come . 
I do not agree with these extreme predictions , but the Commission has a role to play in giving out sensible information about what we can expect and what it will mean for free movement and , indeed , for benefits regimes -- although this is a matter for Member States . 
That is not coming through collectively . 
On a more positive note , I would ask about movement the other way -- people from existing Member States who , for example , would like to retire in Cyprus or work in Poland . 
We are getting enquiries about that positive element of movement . 
Will the Commission provide information ? 
I am particularly addressing my remarks to the honourable Member who , I know , is going to disappear into the sunset before too long , but maybe he can make a great contribution to European safety if in his few months remaining he takes on board some of the issues I was talking about . 
The amount of revenue spent by Member State police forces , customs services and anti-drug squads to control heroin imports and use alone adds up to EUR 4 billion per year . 
We need an alternative development approach for Afghanistan which integrates EU drug policy into its development policy . 
We have to offer the rural population economically viable and steady means of earning an income . 
Therefore is it not far better to stop this trade at the point of growing , rather than the point of consumption or distribution ? 
If we do this , we will save EUR 4 billion in policing costs alone , and EUR 1.5 billion in custodial costs . 
I propose to the honourable Member that we manage this transition , from poppy growing to fruit growing , as we now do for Greek tobacco , which we buy and burn . 
A similar exercise could be done for the poppy crop in Afghanistan , and I would like the honourable Member to take this on board seriously . 
Mr President , I am especially glad that these programmes will guarantee the financial stability of organisations such as Youth Forum , Jeunesse , the European Bureau for Lesser-Used Languages and Mercator information and documentation centres amongst many others . 
Youth Forum and Jeunesse fulfil an important role in empowering and engaging young people in civil society , which is so important . 
They also provide young people with an environment to learn democratic decision-making , intercultural understanding and self-motivated learning . 
Likewise the European Bureau for Lesser-Used Languages and Mercator have both played , and will continue to play , an important role in safeguarding and promoting minority languages in the European Union . 
Their presence and work is especially needed now that 10 new countries will join the Union and further enhance the number of existing minority languages . 
It is crucial that the speakers of these languages enjoy the same rights and possibilities that have been available to everyone else . 
I welcome also the measures to increase transparency in the decisions to allocate grants to organisations and also the user-friendliness of the grant application process which at the moment is far too cumbersome . 
Nevertheless I regret that in the case of youth NGOs the principle of degressivity remains in the common position , which will mean that the reduction of their funds from the third year onwards will make things rather difficult for them . 
Guaranteeing a regular budget for these NGOs would be the best way to support their activities and increase their effectiveness in future . 
I very much hope that these excellent reports will be endorsed by a substantial majority in Parliament . 
Mr President , I welcome Mr Maat 's attempt to tackle this very difficult subject . 
Animal welfare is a very emotive issue in many ways , so any new legislation must be based on sound veterinary and scientific information . 
To judge from the amount of lobbying on this issue , this is clearly a very important issue for the citizens of the European Union . 
I particularly welcome amendments acknowledging difficulties facing remote and peripheral areas for the transportation of animals -- including Wales and the Western Isles of Scotland . 
That is an important inclusion within the body of the report . 
I hope we do not get bogged down , for example , in whether it is to be eight or nine hours . 
Rather , we should focus on what in my view is the far more important issue of proper policing of the regulations and ensuring that the rules are as practical and as workable as they can be . 
I would like to see the live trade ultimately replaced by a carcass trade , with animals slaughtered locally . 
We know of the dangers of not slaughtering locally in the wake of the epidemics of foot-and-mouth and other diseases , where because of transportation of animals , those kinds of diseases spread across the country far more easily . 
Where the transport of live animals is necessary , I hope we will end up with legislation that is both firm and fair for the industry . 
. Mr President , I speak on behalf of the author of the committee 's opinion , Michael Cashman , who can not be here today . 
Mr Cashman welcomed , in his opinion , the proposal for a regulation on the application of the Århus Convention to EC bodies and institutions as a concrete step to align the EC legislation with the requirements of the Convention . 
Although the committee 's opinion approves most parts of the Commission text , there was some need to improve it . 
As the rapporteur on the proposal for a regulation regarding public access to European Parliament , Council and Commission documents , Mr Cashman insisted that this regulation must be in line with the letter and spirit of Regulation ( EC ) No 1049/2001 on public access to documents , where , after negotiations , a sensible balance was agreed between , on the one hand , the citizen 's right to openness and transparency and , on the other , the need to protect certain interests and to preserve the effectiveness of the institutions ' working methods . 
The opinion suggests , for example , a deletion -- in accordance with Regulation ( EC ) No 1049/2001 -- on exceptions where public authorities would not be covered when acting in a legislative capacity . 
The opinion suggests that the operative text of the Commission proposal should clarify that all exceptions under Regulation ( EC ) No 1049/2001 shall apply to requests for information . 
Finally , a general concern of the committee 's opinion is about the deadlines proposed by the Commission . 
Particularly when it comes to access to justice , Community institutions and bodies should be obliged to act within reasonable deadlines and to increase the duty of public awareness-raising in order to achieve meaningful consultation . 
Clearly , Mr Cashman would have wanted to add his own opinion but could not be here today . 
I hope I have set out the main points that he would have proposed in the debate . 
On Monday I returned from Turkey , where , with other politicians and trade unionists , I had the opportunity to observe the local elections . 
Paragraph 1 of the recommendations of this report refers to the ` oft-stated commitment ' by the Turkish authorities ` to democracy and Europe ' . 
I can not share the same confidence . 
Whilst seeking to observe elections in the primary school of Vali Unal Erkan in Diyarbakir , we were shouted at , threateningly , by the local chief of police and prevented from entering the polling station . 
Speakers of the Kurdish language -- spoken by 20 million people in Turkey -- continue to face persecution . 
Kurdish-medium schools are banned , the only concession being the belated effort now to allow a few schoolrooms to be open to teach Kurdish as a foreign language for a few hours a week . 
How can we then say , in paragraph 8 , that we have confidence that the AKP government will safeguard democratic values ? 
As the report emphasises , the prohibition of political parties such as Hadep/Dehap continues , which is why I would urge colleagues to support Amendment No 11 by Mr Lagendijk on the crucial issue of abolishing the 10 % threshold for political parties . 
Until these fundamental matters are addressed and the Turkish Government respects our own Charter of Fundamental Rights , many of us will have grave misgivings before supporting their accession to the European Union . 
As the Development Committee 's draftsman , I would like to stress that our Committee 's most important condition with regard to the financial perspectives , that of reaching the Millennium Development Goals -- the most prominent of which is to halve world poverty by 2015 -- has to remain one of the principal objectives of the category for external action . 
Money allocated to poverty eradication must be safeguarded from being transferred to meet the Community 's other objectives . 
Therefore clear distinction has to be made between those areas of external action which have different characteristics : pre-action aid , enhanced cooperation development , cooperation humanitarian aid , relations with ACP countries , peace and security and , finally , reserves . 
New aid and development assistance is almost invisible . 
The other agencies we use to deliver our money , aid and assistance take the public credit for our taxpayers ' endeavours . 
This must change : it must stop and stop quickly . 
The plan to the budgetise the European Development Fund must not result in a reduction in the overall development finance for ACP countries . 
These funds must be focused by means of sub-headings , or ring-fenced in their financial perspectives . 
I must reiterate that we must keep poverty eradication at the forefront of our development assistance . 
Why is it so important for us ? 
We understand that not only have the Lisbon guidelines not been pursued and that progress is slow but also , as Mr Dimas commented , the new Member States have to do what we have to do and they have the same problems . 
Unfortunately size does matter in a situation where we must keep to the employment guidelines and yet overall unemployment and the budget deficit in the new Member States are roughly double that of the EU 15 . 
Size definitely matters . 
That is why implementation is key , rather than new guidelines . 
Implementation is important , as some people have touched on -- in Amendment 5 for example , concerning youth unemployment and as regards women in the workplace -- but we also have to look at the issue of older workers , the rapidly ageing population of working age . 
Also , as was briefly mentioned by the chair of our committee , the job shocks that our regions are now facing , such as the outsourcing and offshoring of work -- issues that this House is at last taking seriously -- will have to be incorporated into the Lisbon goals . 
I am sure Mr Dimas will take account of that in his work in the coming months . 
The big issue here is to ensure not only that implementation is key , but also that there is better understanding among the main players -- the trade unions and business organisations -- of what the strategy is . 
This clearly does not yet exist in Member States . 
It is vital with regard to this issue , which is one of the last the Committee on Employment will address before the end of the mandate , that we register that the players concerned by this Lisbon goal are insufficiently aware of the strategy being pursued . 
Also important are the quality of lifelong learning and the regional impact of issues like equal funding and market discrimination . 
All of these issues are vital and must remain within the Lisbon goal and the employment guidelines . 
Mr President , I wanted to speak on the Brok report to explain why I believe this Cooperation Agreement to be vital for the promotion of cultural , economic and investment links between the EU and Pakistan . 
I warmly welcome the agreement because trade is a means of opening up dialogue on those areas in which there are still major concerns about democracy and human rights . 
We know Pakistan suffers from acute poverty and I hope that the approval of this agreement will help the government and people of Pakistan to deal with the poverty issues within their country . 
I appreciate there are still many concerns over human rights and democracy in Pakistan , but these are highlighted in the resolution . 
This report and resolution clearly convey the importance that Parliament attaches to upholding human rights and democracy . 
However , Pakistan has made considerable progress in this area , and the most effective way of ensuring that this continues and is strengthened is through enhanced dialogue and cooperation rather than isolation . 
Mr President , maladministration is not confined to Brussels : all political structures are imperfect . 
Man is fallen and some people will sometimes give in to temptation . 
What is peculiar to Brussels is the way in which allegations of malpractice are dealt with . 
The usual response of the EU authorities , faced with evidence of corruption , is not to address the issues raised but to impugn the motives of the critic . 
Thus we have seen the disgraceful way in which Paul van Buitenen and Martha Andreasen were treated and the extraordinary arrest of Hans-Martin Tillack . 
In the looking glass world of Brussels , it is not those engaging in fraud who are harassed and bullied , but those exposing it . 
This inability to handle even the most narrow and qualified criticism can be seen in the reaction to the censure motion on which we have just voted . 
Rather than accepting a mild rebuke , the EU establishment went into overdrive , cajoling and threatening the various signatories in an attempt to prevent the motion from seeing the light of day . 
Any lingering doubts about whether the motion was justified have surely been removed by the attempts to smother it . 
I hope that people beyond this House will extrapolate from what has just happened . 
If this is how the EU administers itself , are we wise to invite it to assume control over huge new swathes of our national affairs ? 
If this is how Brussels exercises the powers it currently has , what are we thinking of that we should be proposing to give it new ones ? 
My masters , are we mad ? 
-- Mr President , it is regrettable that we do not have an opportunity to hear from the vice-presidential candidates , even though we have the right number . 
It would have been good to know who the candidates are . 
We have to remember that 50 % of the Members here are new and do not know the people they are voting for . 
It would have been in the interests of transparent democracy for us to have heard who the people were , so we could choose and put them in order . 
The vice-presidential role is not just a ceremonial role in presiding over these debates but a key decision-making role in the Bureau . 
Some of the candidates are very new . 
I suggest that in future candidates make one-minute presentations . 
I also suggest that we hear from the Quaestors when they are elected tomorrow , because they are the people who are meant to be representing MEPs . 
Otherwise , we have no say whatsoever as to the people we are electing . 
Finally , we should depoliticise the Quaestors , so we have real representatives for MEPs . 
I look forward to building support for the Irish peace process and Irish unity and independence . 
It makes sense for Ireland to be treated as one whether in employment , agriculture or human rights . 
In Ireland we are engaged in a peace process to which the European Union , the United States and others have contributed greatly . 
I welcome the Council 's call for the Commission to examine the possibility of extending funds for Peace II and the International Fund for Ireland . 
Despite much progress , the peace process in Ireland faces great difficulties with the democratic institutions suspended by the British Government . 
Just last week people in my home city of Belfast were penned into their communities while a sectarian unionist parade was forced through . 
Mr President , I am sorry that I have to repeat the request I made yesterday to have the candidates identified so that we can see who we are voting for . 
We have no idea as to who some of the candidates are . 
It would be good if they could stand up , be identified and , ideally , say something . 
I want to commend the Commissioner and his predecessor for the seriousness with which they have taken enforcement action on these directives . 
However , given the sheer number of European citizens affected by these directives concerning age , disability , race , sexual orientation and religion - this is not about minorities - does he find it surprising that there is such a contrast between the speed with which the Commission and this Parliament pushed through this legislation and the way that the Council and six Member States in particular have treated these directives in their failure to implement them ? 
Mr President , why are we talking about the Maldives today ? 
Though it is classified under the GNP criteria as having a living standard in excess of $ 3 000 per capita , 50 % of the people live for less than a dollar a day . 
But if you were to go there , Mr President , you would have to pay $ 300 a night to stay in one of those rooms ! 
Who collects it and where is it banked ? 
Certainly not for the benefit of the people of the Maldives . 
Moreover , recently , on 16 August , 200 people were detained without charge or arrest . 
Eight MPs were detained , MPs who had been tasked with drafting constitutional amendments for increased representation in parliament , including a former candidate for the role of Speaker , former Secretary-General of SAARC Mr Ibrahim Zaki , who has been nominated by some of us for the Sakharov Prize . 
. Mr President , I would like to set out the history and the role of European Data Protection Supervisor and the reasons for draft amending budget No 9 . 
In February this year the Commission presented preliminary draft amending budget No 2 , providing the appropriations for the budget lines in Section VIII ( B ) of the 2004 budget . 
The Commission proposed an overall amount of EUR 1.2 million for the Data Protection Supervisor to start his activities . 
The proposal was endorsed at the time by the Council and Parliament , and the new Data Protection Supervisor Mr Hustinx and the Assistant Supervisor Mr Delgado have started working and are based in the premises of the European Parliament . 
So , this amending budget No 9 will modify the appropriations of the EDPS by topping up the amount granted in amending budget No 2 , which was passed earlier this year . 
However , it should be noted that the figures that were originally foreseen in amending budget No 2 were only for nine months . 
They were predicted in 2001 and the fact is that the Data Protection Supervisor came into being in 2004 . 
As a result of this delay of two years , this particular amending budget is necessary because we need to increase the appropriations in commitments by over EUR 670 000 and in revenue by EUR 170 000 . 
Furthermore , additional amounts of some EUR 300 000 are needed to cover ongoing legal commitments . 
I am also proposing that we enter EUR 200 000 in the reserve . 
We will be reducing some of the appropriations for mission expenses , secretarial allowances , translation and interpretation costs , as well as expenditure on publishing and information . 
As I said earlier , these problems came about because the European Parliament and the Council adopted the regulation in 2001 . 
The main purpose of this regulation is the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies . 
With regard to the free movement of such data , this regulation established an independent supervisory authority , called the European Data Protection Supervisor . 
This Supervisor is responsible for monitoring the processing of personal data by Community institutions and will work with each institution and its data protection officer . 
The Supervisor will deal with sensitive personal data , relating for example to health methods and evaluation of staff . 
I am pleased to inform the House that the Council has adopted this draft amending budget . 
However , I need to point out that in the debate in the Committee on Budgets there were some reservations about the costs . 
Given that this is a newly established institution , we are prepared to accept this particular budget as it is . 
Yet I do want to make it clear that in the future we want to see greater budgetary rigour as well as better planning and forecasting on the part both of the Commission and these new institutions that we are establishing . 
Looking at the number of amending budgets and so forth , we must also remember that we are at a critical point and that Parliament will be establishing a new temporary committee on the financial perspectives . 
It is therefore important that whilst we fight for our main political objectives -- which will be enshrined in the new financial perspectives -- we also examine some of the internal structures , as well as inter -- institutional arrangements . 
Our internal procedures are often too complicated for the EU citizen to understand . 
We need to simplify the budgetary process . 
It is important to remember that what we are doing today is not just a question of technical information in the report : it matters to my constituents in West Midlands and it matters to everybody 's constituents across Europe . 
This new institution will protect our citizens in relation to data processing , which is ever -- increasing . 
That is a good thing and I am very pleased to recommend to the House that we adopt this amending budget as it stands . 
Mr President , I too would like to congratulate both the rapporteurs , and especially Mrs Jensen , who took on responsibility for her report halfway through the year . 
Speaking for the Socialist Group , we support Mrs Jensen 's approach and believe that the amendments represent a satisfactory compromise between the Commission 's proposals and the Council 's cuts in the draft budget . 
In particular , I endorse fully the reinstatement of the PDB for the Ombudsman 's budget , and also for funding for an objective information campaign on the constitutional treaty . 
It is important that our citizens are able to make informed decisions based on facts . 
As regards the secretarial allowance , if we are to improve it , it is essential we have in place an assistant 's statute . 
That is why the funding for this stays in reserve . 
I have been following the budget for over five years and the issue I have always focused on is transparency . 
I believe the problems arise because we have no opportunity to appreciate the behind the Council 's decisions to increase the budget lines or decrease them . 
These decisions are taken behind closed doors . 
If the Council is serious in wanting Parliament to support its approach , then it needs to make these decisions in the public arena . 
Over the years , I have tried to improve our budgeting process , especially in relation to the way other institutions come up with and propose their budgets , by encouraging them to take on Activity Based Budgeting , ABB . 
I have to say that I am deeply disappointed that none of the other institutions have made reasonable efforts to adopt this method . 
I believe that since the Commission has implemented ABB , its budgeting has improved with greater transparency . 
Having said that , there is considerable room for improvement even with the Commission . 
What is urgently needed there is greater openness and a thorough evaluation of programmes , of successes and failures , to ensure that when programmes are re-targeted or re-evaluated , this is done on the basis of independent evaluation . 
There are areas where the Commission is still failing to match policy priorities with an adequate level of resources . 
For example , my particular hobbyhorse is poverty eradication . 
It is not just the Commission and the Council that need to demonstrate greater transparency : it would benefit Parliament too . 
In the last few years , we have seen the emergence of horizontal amendments . 
Of course they simplify voting procedures , but they also create two problems . 
Firstly , they blur the decisions taken by COBU and , secondly , the result is that fewer and fewer people are involved in decision-making , both within Parliament and within the political groups . 
We have a unique opportunity to address these issues , namely in our deliberations on the next financial perspectives . 
We have the chance not just to look at the figures and headings , but also to make our internal processes clearer and simpler . 
The budget process is not just for the anoraks like myself and others who are sitting around here , everyone in this House is accountable to European citizens for the decisions this House makes on the budget . 
Finally , I call on the Council , the Commission , Parliament and the other institutions to take this opportunity to take radical action so that future budgets are simple and transparent . 
I would also like to add my thanks to Commissioner Schreyer . 
I would like to thank her for all her work in this area and wish her all the best for the future . 
. Mr President , I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for his excellent report and his insightful work into EU-India relations ; I endorse the report as it currently stands . 
However , speaking as Chair of the Parliament 's South Asia delegation , I would like to go further . 
I am extremely keen that we develop a meaningful , strategic partnership . 
My hope for the fifth EU-India Summit on 8 November is that it is a landmark one ; one that propels the relationship between the world 's largest democracy and ourselves -- the second-largest -- into the twenty-first century . 
This can only happen if both sides have a strong will to turn dialogue and statements into a tangible reality . 
Therefore , I ask the Council to reflect on why , despite many proposals and summits in the past , very little progress has been made on this issue . 
Could it be that we have not had a clear vision of where we want our relations to be in five or ten years ' time ? 
The list is also missing some crucial priorities : one of our main priorities , for example , is realising the Lisbon goals , which also happens to be one of India 's top priorities . 
Their objective , like ours , is to create a knowledge-based society . 
We have the same goals and we can learn from each other , but we need to have the means to translate the wish-list into actual achievements if we are to ensure that happens . 
We also need to ensure that there are adequate resources in place . 
I am keen to see the Commission communication creating a tangible difference on the ground and a partnership that allows the benefits of the enlarged Union to be reflected in the new neighbourhood policy . 
I am leading a Parliamentary delegation to New Delhi next week and I will be urging our Indian counterparts to take action in the same areas -- to prioritise , to produce a document -- with a view to improving EU-India relations . 
I would agree with Mr Crowley , but differ slightly on the matter of Ecstasy smuggling . 
This is a major problem for London , the area I represent , where there is a lot of Ecstasy smuggling . 
My question to the President-in-Office , though , relates to the EU drugs strategy within the framework of justice and home affairs , which the Dutch presidency has prioritised . 
A drugs strategy report has begun its progress through Parliament . 
Given the experience of the Dutch with regard to drugs prevention and drugs policy , what does the presidency propose to do to combat drug smuggling ? 
. The revised packaging and packaging waste directive marks another important step towards strategies and policies that focus on waste minimisation , recovery , reuse and recycling . 
In both the North and South of Ireland , similar directives are having a positive impact and changing both government practice and public mindsets with respect to domestic and commercial waste management . 
Much work remains to be done , but we now have many good examples to learn from , including innovative ideas on reuse . 
I also wish to stress the importance of deadlines for ensuring that Member States reach the targets agreed by the EU , and this includes deadlines for the newest Member States . 
At local government level in Ireland we have directives which show that recycling brings with it the notion of local authorities , from Belfast to Dublin , actively pursuing new forms of waste management , while at the same time government departments have been moved to concentrate their efforts as a result of these directives . 
It is important , however , that those countries which joined the European Union in June 2004 are treated fairly . 
I therefore support Mrs Corbey and the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Food Safety with respect to the amendments on this point . 
This is not about delay : it is about clarity , effectiveness and fairness . 
We need deadlines , but we also need clarity and fairness for all . 
On that basis the original agreement on dates should stand . 
It is also extremely important for us to ensure that countries can pursue policies on reuse and that we do not close down any possibilities in this respect . 
The old style of clichés and information about drugs has long gone . 
We now need a more effective strategy . 
It has been much amended and I think that , in the light of those amendments , it is a report that the whole House should support . 
We on this side will do so . 
Mr President , today we remember one of the worst industrial disasters in history . 
Their efforts were , however , futile and nearly 4 000 people died instantaneously ; to date 25 000 innocent people have died . 
Whilst I support the major part of the resolution and the sentiment behind it , I do not believe the proposed amendments add anything constructive to this resolution . 
As chair of Parliament 's South-Asia SAARC delegation , I would urge you to keep all these matters in perspective , and the budget of each country is particularly relevant . 
We must recognise the limitation of certain countries , which may not yet have developed the technologies or know-how to deal with such disasters as quickly and as safely as we have come to expect in our own countries . 
We must also attempt to see each angle of an issue such as the Bhopal disaster , and we should acknowledge the work that has already been done by the Indian Government and the Madhya Pradesh Government with regard to medical care , economic and social assistance , environmental clean-up , and finally financial compensation . 
Rather , we need to employ all our diplomatic efforts to keep the pressure on the Indian Government to maintain its current efforts in providing compensation and working on detoxification of the area . 
Nevertheless , if we demand that action is taken and money is spent , we should also be prepared to help in any way we can , including offering technical and financial support . 
We must not condemn without first examining what we , as a community , can do to help . 
I would urge you , therefore , to pressure all those who can bring any relief to those who have already suffered in Bhopal . 
In at least ten countries there must be a referendum before ratification . 
We can not call the result of those polls with certainty . 
Not a single ballot has yet been cast . 
If it were only the party that was premature , it would be rather curmudgeonly of me to object , but we are anticipating the Constitution in other more important ways . 
We are , for example , pushing ahead with the creation of an EU diplomatic service , a proposal which , pending formal ratification , has no legal basis . 
In the field of justice and home affairs we have gone even further , pre-empting many of the Constitution 's clauses , in particular those to do with the creation of a pan-European legal system and a European public prosecutor . 
Before the Constitution had even been signed , let alone ratified , the European Court of Justice had indicated that it would treat the Charter of Fundamental Rights as justiciable . 
Asked formally by this House what parts of the Constitution they intended to implement without waiting for official ratification , only five of the current Commissioners answered that it would be wrong to anticipate the results of the national referendums . 
The other 20 all replied in one way or another that they intended to forge ahead at once without waiting for the outcome of the national ballots . 
This is meant to be a democratic chamber , but its attitude sometimes recalls Bertolt Brecht 's famous couplet ` Let us dismiss the people and elect another in their place ' . 
I hope my country will vote ` no ' to the Constitution and I am campaigning to that end , but if I lose , I shall accept the result with good grace . 
I would urge those of you who support the Constitution to display a similar respect for the democratic process and not to try to implement large parts of this Constitution even if one or more Member States has voted against it . 
No means no . 
Mr President , Commissioner , many Members have not had sight of the Green Paper yet , but at this early stage we should set down for you some basic principles of what is a very welcome discussion . 
First , as my colleague Mrs Roure said , integration policy must be a vital component of any proposed legislation . 
We know that we want to share best practice , but we still have a very vague position on integration policy . 
Secondly , managed migration means all things to all Members in this House . 
For some it may mean control , for some it may mean the right to family unity . 
This is a big gap and we must define in this discussion what managed migration actually means . 
These are human beings coming from third countries to work in the European Union , they are not commodities . 
We will have a set of principles and laws which will have to accommodate that . 
Finally , I very much welcome that civil society will have a much greater say , but we must then listen to civil society , to the trade unions and to business . 
I thank the Commissioner for that clear answer . 
I know from the previous debate that you take the issue of integration seriously . 
Will you use your powers in office to enforce such directives , which play such an important part in the integration process ? 
You have that power . 
. Mr President , I have just returned from Sri Lanka , where I witnessed many of the dreadful sights that we have all seen on television . 
As a Sri Lankan-born Member of this Parliament , I wish to express my gratitude to all those who have responded so generously to appeals , and especially for the help given by the peoples of Europe ; my own country , Britain , in particular ; and my constituents in the south-east of England . 
The EU and its Member States have together pledged almost EUR 1.5 billion so far . 
The amount continues to rise . 
The Commission and Parliament have sanctioned EUR 23 million and promised funds of EUR 350 million , although EUR 150 million of that is not new money , but will be taken from existing long-term developments . 
This must be reviewed . 
I also welcome the proposal for a lending facility of EUR 1 billion from the European Investment Bank . 
We must deliver the aid which we have promised . 
In the past the international community has not done so . 
A rapid reaction civilian corps for aid delivery , as proposed by Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner , is most welcome . 
Our aid must be visible . 
I was embarrassed in Sri Lanka because EU aid was immediately delivered , but was done so invisibly , despite Commissioner Michel being extremely visible and hands-on . 
The United Nations and NGOs only act as coordinators and do not pretend to be the donors . 
Our taxpayers demand visibility . 
Ownership matters . 
We must also ensure that aid is not stolen -- yes , stolen ! 
Where the appropriate systems do not exist in the recipient countries , aid will be stolen unless we ensure that delivery mechanisms are totally transparent and accountable . 
There is currently an urgent need for small , suitable boats to be donated . 
I am glad that President Barroso mentioned that . 
Early warning procedures are also needed before the next disaster happens . 
An authenticated telephone call to CNN and the other broadcast networks could have saved thousands of lives in Sri Lanka , Somalia and Thailand . 
After all , the Americans evacuated Diego Garcia . 
However , that telephone call did not come . 
This does not only apply to Asia . 
How would people in Europe be warned if , let us say , volcanic activity in the Canary Islands caused a tsunami ? 
Will the Commission prepare an urgent report ? 
In Sri Lanka I hope that reconstruction will also mean reconciliation and that aid will be consistent with the December 2002 Oslo talks and the Tokyo Donor Conference expectations . 
We should expect no less for Indonesia , with its Aceh separatists . 
We must remember that it is trade and investment , not aid , which will sustain the people in the long term . 
The devastation is limited to the coastal areas and the countries of south Asia are still open for business . 
Let us all work together , not only to repair the destruction , but also to give the victims a hand up and not merely a hand-out . 
Mr President , may I start by apologising for the behaviour of some of my compatriots . 
I am very embarrassed that they are behaving in this way and interrupting when we are having a very serious debate about such tragic matters . 
If we may continue -- 26 December 2004 was not the same last year , nor will it ever be again . 
Disbelief turned into incomprehension , to grief , to sympathy ; a plethora of emotions as we watched the tsunami tragedy unfold . 
The waves and quakes were a pervasive example of how our fates are shared with one another in a global theatre of environmental and natural risk . 
As President of the South Asia Delegation , I would like to give my sincere condolences to all those affected by this tragedy . 
I have been very moved by the heartfelt global response to this unprecedented disaster . 
In the face of the tsunami , European citizens have been amongst the most generous . 
The EU 's immediate response within 24 hours was highly commendable , as was the selfless Indian decision to ask that this aid should go to the worst affected areas , such as Sri Lanka and Indonesia . 
Therefore , I hope that the rumours of current funding to India being diverted to other areas are not true . 
Having seen the needs in India for myself , I hope they will not be ignored in the short term . 
I would demand that the Commission does not redeploy or reprogramme funds from any existing aid projects within this region . 
It would be criminal to take from the world 's poorest to fund this tragedy . 
I welcome the Commission 's promise of an extra EUR 350 million , but I was not convinced by President Barroso 's explanation this morning , because for years humanitarian aid budgets for Asia have been in decline , from 70 % in 1990 to 38 % in 2000 . 
Therefore , it is not acceptable that we divert money away from poverty eradication programmes ; we should be adding more money . 
We need to approach this tragedy differently from any other and explore the use of new specialist teams in those countries . 
It is not just money that is needed : we also need to give technical expertise . 
I would ask the Commission to look at enduring changes . 
I thank the President-in-Office for the clarity of his answer in listing the countries concerned . 
It is precisely those countries that are the subject of many representations received by Members . 
We now believe that the problem of child soldiers is not a marginal problem . 
We now know that this is a commonplace phenomenon in countries other than those he has actually mentioned , for example in the Middle East . 
We expect the Luxembourg presidency , and indeed the UK presidency , to maintain this issue at the top of the agenda . 
I urge the Council not to treat this as a marginal issue , but to maintain it at the top of development issues , as well as foreign affairs issues , during the Luxembourg presidency . 
I thank him again for giving such a clear answer . 
We are facing challenges from China , India , Brazil and other countries . 
We have heard a clarion call from the President asking us to throw out the old models and to create new ones in order to compete . 
In that context I want to say that we agree that the World Economic Forum was a tremendous success , as global representatives from governments , businesses and civil society managed to agree on a coherent set of principles for action : matching global trade with sustainable development . 
Many of these -- such as concrete measures to liberalise trade and accelerate aid to the poorest countries -- will be of great benefit in helping to achieve the Millennium Development Goals . 
I wish to take this opportunity to congratulate all those involved in the World Economic Forum . 
At this point , however , and less diplomatically than the President of the Commission , I must also make some remarks about the World Social Forum , which proved to be something of a disappointment by comparison . 
Poverty reduction is the largest of the Millennium Development Goals and , as one main aim of the World Social Forum 's participants , one would have expected the Forum to produce some concrete recommendations as to how this might be achieved . 
Yet even journalists who were generally in favour of the World Social Forum had to admit that its basic objective was not to produce a unified document suggesting concrete ideas for fear of spoiling the diversity of opinions , and that the resulting proposals contain many contradictions . 
We in the European Parliament respect diversity and want to hear the views of world social experts as part of our commitment to achieving the Millennium Development Goals . 
But , logically , we can not do both simultaneously -- one thing and its opposite . 
I would , therefore , call for more unified proposals from the World Social Forum in the hope of achieving those goals more rapidly and without wasting further time . 
In this regard I was also disappointed that , as the President of the Commission said , although we are the largest economy there were very few people from the European Parliament in the World Economic Forum . 
Do the people who are arranging these matters consider that the elected representatives of the people of Europe are also important in the decision-making process of the World Economic Forum ? 
Mr President , this is an important report because it emphasises two key areas which have not been emphasised enough previously . 
Mr António Costa has taken an important step forward in signalling that it is the quality of justice , and not just mutual recognition , which is key . 
If anyone in this House doubts this issue , they should look at the ` Copenhagen criteria ' . 
The quality of justice in many of the accession states and the need for improvements was an essential part of joining the European Union . 
Nor should any of the existing 15 Member States be complacent that they have all the right answers and the highest quality of justice . 
The Quality Charter for Criminal Justice in Europe should not be something that Member States fear . 
They should welcome it , because this is one of the most visible areas of cooperation in the European Union that our citizens recognise . 
They see it in the media , they want to see solutions at a European level , they want to feel safe in a European Union which delivers swift justice and protection for the innocent . 
This in no way imposes changes on the way each Member State conducts its criminal justice system . 
It does , however , take a step forward in ensuring that important matters such as the effective dealing with criminal gangs , or the way EU citizens may serve their sentence in their own Member State , can be progressed . 
EU citizens expect some degree of mutual trust between Member States and a view on the quality of criminal justice , particularly in relation to some new Member States working to improve their criminal justice systems . 
Natura 2000 is an important step in protecting and developing biodiversity in the nature reserves of the European Union . 
The policy must be guaranteed by mainstreaming Natura 2000 and integrating it into the main EU funding programmes . 
The financing regulations for these programmes need to reflect this integrated approach . 
Regulations for the 2007-2013 financial perspective now need to be strengthened for the integrated approach to work . 
I would like to congratulate Mrs Ries on her report . 
The recognition that health is interconnected with our physical and social environment must become a consistent aspect of mainstream policy and debate . 
We also need to look at the success stories in Ireland and elsewhere in relation to the smoking ban in workplaces . 
There has been an 18 % drop in cigarette consumption in Ireland and many who opposed a complete ban on tobacco smoke in workplaces now accept it as normal . 
We need to move beyond the notion that health is simply a lifestyle choice and the action plan fails to do this . 
For the most disadvantaged in our society to be empowered to break free from ill health and poverty , we need defined and concerted action by Member States and the Commission . 
Such action must also be adequately resourced . 
More action is needed in working with health professionals and NGOs to empower communities to play an active part in building a better environment ; we need more action on the protection of children , the elderly and other vulnerable groups , from hazardous environments and products ; we need more action on removing hazardous chemicals from the market ; and we need adequate labelling on the environmental and health implications of products and materials . 
It is also vital that we have recourse to the precautionary principle because of the possible serious risks to health if we fail to act . 
I wholeheartedly agree with Mrs Ries and her assertion that in order to ensure the coherence and effectiveness of the action plan , it is necessary to establish adequate funding now for the 2004-2007 period . 
I would like to thank her for her work and commend her report to Parliament . 
-- Mr President , I would just like to make two points . 
Firstly , while the Commission is trying to find innovative solutions to an unprecedented disaster , I would urge it to remain pragmatic about the impact of this gesture . 
This proposal is well-intentioned . 
I appreciate we all want to do all we can to help the hundreds and thousands of people who have lost their homes and their livelihoods because of the tsunami but it is important that this is additional help and not replacement help or help in kind and that this does not count towards the EUR 350 million that the EU has already committed to this . 
Secondly , I would like to ask the Commission to look at the best use for the larger decommissioned boats . 
The fishing communities in India and Thailand were equally devastated and I believe that the more developed fishing industry in these countries may be better placed and better equipped , to use the larger vessels , so this idea should be explored . 
Obviously , these boats will not be of any use to the individual , local fishermen , but they could be used by cooperatives or SME businesses . 
It is important that all the countries are treated equally and that we explore the right avenue for them . 
-- Mr President , it is with deep regret that we witnessed the recent events in Nepal . 
The European Parliament can not just stand by . 
This Himalayan country faces several problems , including the issue of refugees from Bhutan . 
The most immediate actions that we demand of the Nepalese authorities are : the lifting of the state of emergency ; the release of all political prisoners under house arrest or detention in prison ; and the lifting of the media embargo , to allow freedom of the press , national and international . 
In the medium and long term , we must also examine the ways that the EU and other international bodies can help . 
This is conducive to reducing the vulnerability of the Nepalese to the Maoist rebels . 
However , we must be careful not to penalise the ordinary people , as that would alienate us from helping them . 
Thirdly , we must look at the diplomatic efforts we could make . 
That could include arbitrating between the monarchy and other political parties , so as to encourage them both to the negotiating table , where steps towards multi-party democracy could be made . 
Furthermore , we need to explore the possibility of sending a neutral third party , such as Javier Solana , the EU High Representative , or the United Nations , to formulate a road map to peace and democracy in Nepal . 
It might even be helpful to send a delegation from Parliament . 
In conclusion , I would like to stress the importance of the restoration of fundamental freedoms in Nepal , and the role we can play to encourage and support a democratic future . 
However , the EU must act with caution : there are dangers in this unstable time of aggravating a fragile situation . 
. -- Mr President , I wish to congratulate Mrs Gill on her excellent speech . 
We have heard that the King has declared a state of emergency , dismissed the government , assumed direct power and suspended civil rights indefinitely . 
Politicians have proved incapable of ridding Nepal of a group of so-called ` Maoist insurgents ' that was launched in 1996 to bring down the monarchy and the regime . 
The ceasefire they attempted to negotiate with the insurgents broke down in August 2003 . 
However , in doing so , he has played into the hands of rebel forces and has infringed upon the very rights he was purportedly aiming to protect . 
Nepal can not be allowed to regress to a system whereby the King is undisputed ruler and the rights and lives of his subjects are in the hands of one man . 
The recent chain of events is extremely worrying and reminiscent of the Nepal of the Rana oligarchs , a Nepal whose human rights record the world had hoped was finally going to be laid to rest . 
However , Sierra Leone is ranked as the least-developed country in the world . 
Sadly , the criteria set out by the Cotonou Agreement as essential to long-term development could also be used as a list of what Sierra Leone lacks most . 
In January 2002 Sierra Leone saw the end of a decade-long , savage civil war . 
The conflict in Sierra Leone cost tens of thousands of lives and the displacement of millions . 
Charles Ghankay Taylor , the former President of Liberia , has recently been indicted by the Special Court for Sierra Leone with actively supporting the Revolutionary United Front which was responsible for the widespread atrocities in Sierra Leone . 
According to Amnesty International , Taylor 's crimes included the systematic killing of civilians , amputation , rape , other forms of sexual violence , the use of child soldiers , abductions and forced labour . 
The Special Court of Sierra Leone created by the international community and which the EU supported with some EUR 800 000 last year , has charged Taylor with 17 counts of war crimes , crimes against humanity and other serious violations of international humanitarian law . 
However , Nigeria has given Taylor asylum . 
International law now cries out that those suspected of committing war crimes or crimes against humanity must be investigated and brought to justice . 
Under the 1949 Geneva Convention the Nigerian authorities are obliged to arrest Taylor and to surrender him to the Special Court of Sierra Leone . 
There is no legal base whatsoever for Taylor to be protected by President Obasanjo of Nigeria . 
If Taylor remains in Nigeria , however , it is doubtful that this man accused of heinous crimes will ever face trial . 
Moreover , if he seeks sanctuary in another ACP country we should bring the full force of the Cotonou Agreement to bear on that country . 
-- Mr President , I just wanted to make it absolutely clear how the Special Court was established . 
Therefore , I propose that we amend the first citation of the joint resolution to read : ` having regard to the Special Court for Sierra Leone , established through an agreement between the United Nations and the Government of Sierra Leone pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution 1315 of 14 August 2000 , with the aim of putting on trial those accused of war crimes , crimes against humanity and violations of international law committed in Sierra Leone , ' . 
This is a tidying-up exercise . 
Furthermore , because of the importance of this issue to the international community , the Commission and the Member States , I should like to request a roll-call on the final vote . 
Thank you , Commissioner , for your detailed answer , which , together with the information given by Commissioner Mandelson in the debate earlier today , has left me fully satisfied . 
President-in-Office , I discovered this report and was keen that during your presidency you put further pressure on UEFA in particular and , if necessary , FIFA , to move us towards a position where football is truly a family sport . 
At the moment it is being scarred not just by hooliganism but , as you said , also by racism . 
In your view , does UEFA issue stiff enough penalties , particularly in international football ? 
What is being done about national football ? 
Some pressure should be put on countries like , for instance , Italy , the Netherlands , Germany and my own country to ensure that football is truly a family sport . 
Is there anything you can do during your presidency to make that a reality ? 
Mr President , this motion is ridiculous . 
A total of two ministers out of a government of fifty-six ministers does not make the government Islamist . 
We need to have proportionality in our debates otherwise the world will laugh at us . 
We must use these human rights debates to talk about serious matters affecting people and their human rights . 
Three hundred thousand people have been killed in Darfur . 
What are we doing about that ? 
Let us introduce some proportionality and balance to our debates and give the issues we discuss in these human rights debates some serious consideration . 
Mr President , I am proud today to be sitting in the same Chamber as Mrs Járóka and Mrs Mohácsi , although not so proud that so few Members of this House or staff of the institutions belong to an ethnic minority . 
This is brought into sharp relief in this debate on the Roma . 
We have a situation where this group will certainly be the biggest minority after the next enlargement . 
There is consensus -- apart from with the last speaker but one perhaps -- that something must be done . 
So what must be done ? 
Mrs Bauer talked about the deep complexity of this problem . 
The fact is that we in this House are already able to point to those things that we can do , but that Member States will not do . 
For example , there is the race equality directive . 
I have seen cases of Roma people bringing employment discrimination cases in their own countries , but there are so few as to make this meaningless . 
With Mr Agnoletto this morning , I met members of the Roma community from Italy . 
As is the case of my own country , the United Kingdom , the diaspora of the Roma in so-called Old Europe are suffering as much if not more than in the new countries , because they are suffering the extra degradation of being immigrants and Roma . 
We must address both issues . 
This is a unified struggle and -- apart from one speaker with whom I and many of us absolutely disagree -- I want to place on record that the problem is so complex that there should be an all-party move on this resolution , signed and supported by all parties , that we can not live in a European Union where children from one ethnic minority are segregated in school , sent to school with people who supposedly have mental disabilities . 
I look forward to hearing whether the Commissioner will take urgent action . 
Mr President , Sinn Féin supports the McCartney family 's demand for those responsible for Robert 's murder to face trial and will continue to do all that it can to help them . 
I welcome them here today . 
Our party has met with the McCartney family a number of times . 
Sinn Féin President Gerry Adams has called on those responsible to come forward and admit their responsibility for this horrendous murder . 
They have refused . 
He has also called on everyone who was in the vicinity of Magennis 's Bar to provide full and frank statements . 
Two members were expelled for refusing to follow this instruction ; four others resigned ; the other six remain suspended pending a report to our party 's national executive . 
As a Sinn Féin MEP and as an individual , I could not campaign for the victims of British or Unionist paramilitary thuggery if I was not as clear and as committed to justice for the McCartney family . 
Others who have any information should come forward . 
I was surprised by the Commissioner 's reply just now . 
There is no Constitution to use , it has not been ratified by the people of Europe . 
Why is he quoting a constitution ? 
What is wrong with the Treaty ? 
It is in line with our vote in 2004 and supports the principle at the heart of this directive , the health and safety of workers and the aim to reconcile work and family life and increase productivity . 
The EPLP understands the adjustment difficulties faced by the United Kingdom and others , but thanks to certain flexible provisions in the report , such as the extended reference period of 12 months , these difficulties are overcome . 
We recognise that on call time is the same as working time , as ruled by the ECJ in the SIMAP and JAEGER cases . 
These landmark rulings have implications for the NHS and member states ' health care systems , but by allowing member states themselves to calculate this part of working time , the compromise package we have achieved is sufficiently flexible . 
The EPLP hopes a positive vote at the first stage of the process will ensure the adoption of a report on working time that safeguards workers ' health and safety , makes work-life balance a reality whilst containing the requisite degree of flexibility . 
Are we aware of the lack of activity by Member States , for example , their lack of implementation of the Equal Treatment Directive and of Article 13 of the Race Equality Directive , where the Commission is taking enforcement action ? 
Are we aware that Member States are lagging badly behind on the implementation of existing law that would protect the Roma community , particularly in employment ? 
This is a serious issue . 
Can the Roma issue , given how immense it is , be reflected in final statements by the Luxembourg presidency , to ensure that the United Kingdom presidency that follows takes this issue equally seriously ? 
Mr President , I should like to amplify the point made by Mr Swoboda , as the report on the protection of minorities in an enlarged Europe has also been withdrawn from the agenda because translation was not completed . 
I wish to confirm that translation was not completed and to emphasise to the House that a number of reports are now being withdrawn for this reason . 
Mr President , will you investigate why this is happening so frequently to Members across this House ? 
I request that the debate and the vote on the report on the protection of minorities in an enlarged Europe take place in the June I partsession in the presence of the Council . 
I welcome the Commission 's proposals that aim to enhance the environment and the countryside through support for land management . 
Equally important is the aim of enhancing the quality of life in rural areas and promoting diversification of economic activities , through measures targeting farm sector and rural actors . 
I also welcome the fact that through the establishment of a single rural development fund , bureaucracy and duplication are reduced . 
I welcome the proposals in Mrs Schierhuber 's report to promote equality of opportunity and the participation of women in farming and in the wider rural economy . 
Support for organic farming is also important . 
The Commission 's proposed budget of EUR 88.75 billion for 2007-2013 at 2004 prices was also welcome . 
We would still face considerable problems even with this amount . 
It is vital that such funds are used to meet the objectives of improving the quality of life of our family farming communities and the protection of our rural environment . 
There is a need for the aims and objectives of Natura 2000 to be mainstreamed into all aspects of EU agricultural and rural development policy and funding . 
Farmers , foresters and other land managers should be appropriately supported for protecting and maintaining Natura 2000 sites . 
Resources should be put into the fund for the 2007-2013 period that will enable this to happen . 
Otherwise , we seriously run the risk of repeating past mistakes . 
Mr President , we must never forget that the collective interest is the national interest , especially in a world full of terrorism . 
One of the most important functions of the United Nations is the delivery of its aid to the less developed world . 
For the first time , Internet technology has made it possible to bring transparency into the raising of international aid funding in the donor countries and the delivery of aid in the recipient countries . 
We must be able to see how the aid is being spent , brick by brick . 
A closer involvement by citizens through the Internet will create a new driving force for the effective delivery of aid and for holding governments , the United Nations and other NGOs accountable . 
Civil strife and gross violations of human rights are the principal obstacles to United Nations development objectives . 
One civil war can undo decades of development effort . 
It is therefore essential to give our full backing to the work of the international criminal courts and to make it clear that anyone who commits crimes against humanity will be personally called to account for his or her action . 
On 24 February , this Parliament passed a unanimous resolution demanding that Nigeria surrender to the United Nations international court the former President of Liberia , who has been charged with war crimes by the United Nations Special Court for Sierra Leone . 
Why has the United Nations Security Council failed to reinforce this demand with a mandatory resolution under Chapter VII ? 
The United Nations Commission on Human Rights must be replaced with a stronger human rights council , with membership barred to nations with poor human rights records . 
Finally , the United Nations must return to its roots . 
It must reform a stagnant bureaucracy . 
It must become the three pillars : peace and security , justice and human rights , and development . 
Furthermore they will not deliver on a forward-thinking budget that the 21st century EU requires . 
The opportunity to overhaul the EU budget and to leave behind the antiquated system has , I believe , been missed both by the Commission and the Council . 
The Europe of today needs to face up to the challenges ahead and we need to learn this lesson now . 
Our citizens want us to create a better Europe , which means more economic growth and employment stability . 
Therefore , Mr President-in-Office , how can you justify cuts in the very areas that people want in terms of research funding , growth and jobs ? 
Clearly we are not listening or delivering on our citizens ' priorities . 
Finally , with regard to transparency , many people are asking why these talks are taking place behind closed doors . 
I suggest that if the Council wants to connect with the people out there , then it should leave these doors open and let the citizens hear the debate . 
All I can say is that I hope the UK presidency will make this its number one priority . 
Roll on the British presidency ! 
Mr President , as an Irish speaker I welcome the decision to accord the status of official working language of the European Union to the Irish language . 
Mr President , as the final Member speaking in this debate can I emphasise that I was not a shadow , but I have learned a great deal from the way Mr Cashman has achieved agreement on the most difficult of subjects , dealing with sensitive issues like the reintroduction of border checks , creating a balance between security post-9 / 11 and all the benefits of Schengen free movement and respecting the dignity of people , particularly from third countries , who want to enter the Union . 
Doing all of that within a codecision procedure is a great achievement and we have learned a lot from the way that cooperation has taken place . 
It is also a great success because Members like me have observed that reaching a compromise between security at border control on the one hand , and fairness on the other , is very difficult . 
Therefore I commend in this report -- the first time in a codecision report since the Article 13 directives went through this Parliament -- the fact that we have an explicit reference to anti-discrimination and to the dignity of people while carrying out border checks . 
There is a huge hidden minority of people that are harassed and victimised at borders . 
Mr Cashman has understood this , he has put it explicitly in his report and he has created the balance that we all wanted to see . 
Mr President , last week five farmers were thrown into jail in Ireland because they resisted the laying of a potentially dangerous gas pipeline through their land and close to their homes . 
The five men were sent to prison because they refused to give assurances that they would not obstruct work on their land . 
These men have legitimate concerns and we should share those concerns on environmental grounds . 
The Shell-led multinational consortium , including Marathon and Norwegian Statoil , intend to place a pipeline across residential land and beside homes , without an independent safety audit being carried out . 
We see multinational companies with no regard for local communities or the environment and a compliant government that allows these potential hazards to communities . 
Local people argued that the pipeline should be laid out to sea . 
The pipeline operation has not been shown to comply with the necessary safety precautions . 
Europol is extremely important to European citizens and to the European Parliament . 
Its activities on issues such as drug trafficking , illegal trafficking of human beings and other organised crime is vital work which has increasing importance with the enlargement of the EU and potential further enlargements . 
In voting for my Report , I have noted the EP Hearing with the new Director in June 2005 of Europol and the EP visit to Europol 's Headquarters in April 2005 . 
While a clear picture has yet to emerge , it certainly has all the trappings of a coordinated terrorist attack . 
Yet again we are reminded of the fragility of our world order and the need to work together to eradicate such barbaric , mindless acts . 
Freedom and democracy are the fundamental tenets of the Union . 
Just as we continue to espouse these principles within the Union , we need to translate this commitment into tangible actions against regimes that are diametrically opposed to such freedoms . 
That is why I am lending my wholehearted support to the resolution on Zimbabwe . 
If we are truly proponents of a free society , then how can we continue to stand by and allow this dictatorial oppression to continue unabated ? 
Why , as a Union , have we not levied increased pressure against the regime ? 
Why have we not tightened and enforced sanctions ? 
Why has the Council refused to respond to Parliament 's consistent calls in this respect ? 
Furthermore , it is a great disappointment that South Africa and a number of Zimbabwe 's other neighbours have chosen not to intervene in the plight of the Zimbabwean people . 
We have witnessed the entire resources of a once wealthy state enslaved . 
I would suggest to President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa that his choice not to criticise President Mugabe is a very disturbing indictment on his views of what constitutes a fair , free and open society . 
At a time when the international community is galvanised to address the endemic problems that Africa faces , it is only appropriate that we look beyond poverty relief to the maintenance of good governance , transparency , the rule of law and respect for human rights for all African countries . 
I therefore call upon this Parliament to support this resolution wholeheartedly . 
Mr President , I would like to draw the attention of the House to a major industrial dispute in my constituency of London which affected many thousands of air passengers around Europe -- that of the Gate Gourmet workers , 670 of whom were arbitrarily dismissed from their jobs on 13 August without any redundancy payment . 
This led to a major strike by British Airways staff and caused major disruption for many passengers . 
Having visited the workers during the summer recess , I would like to draw the attention of the House to the poor industrial relations records of some of these companies and the need for an amicable settlement . 
All that the workers want is reinstatement , and if that is not possible , then redundancy payment . 
The company is moving in the right direction , but we should send the signal that throughout the European Union we want fair and balanced industrial relations , and observance of the law , so that consumer disruption of this kind can be avoided and workers can get on with their lives , and so that people with over 30 years ' service in such companies receive the justice they deserve . 
On 28 July , the IRA made an historic decision to end its armed struggle . 
Sinn Féin believes that there now exists the opportunity to achieve Irish Republican objectives through purely peaceful and democratic methods . 
There is also a responsibility on the British Government to implement the aspects of the Good Friday Agreement on which it has so far reneged . 
Residents feel vulnerable and powerless and they feel angry at the inaction of the Police Service of Northern Ireland and the relative silence of Unionist political representatives . 
The job for all those connected with the Irish peace process is immense . 
The European Commission has an ability to provide extremely good advice and support through ECHO . 
All around the world in crises of a similar type , ECHO has played a prominent advisory role -- in the tsunami in Indonesia and Sri Lanka , and in other instances such as the Mozambique floods . 
Mr President , although mining is less widespread in Ireland now than it once was , some mining companies have left a legacy that continues to pollute our land and water due to a lack of proper checks . 
Throughout the European Union , hundreds of millions of tons of waste are generated by mining and many sites left in a condition which poses grave dangers . 
It is important , therefore , to deal not only with waste generated following such a directive but also to deal with historical waste arising from facilities that have been abandoned or which were not shut down properly . 
We should also reverse the Council 's lifelong exemption from some of the key provisions for certain existing facilities . 
I commend this excellent report by Mr Sjöstedt and thank him for his work . 
Mr President , I welcome the report by Mrs Jöns and thank her for her work . 
In particular I welcome the emphasis placed on social inclusion , gender mainstreaming , people with disabilities and the role of the NGO sector in this programme . 
I also want to throw my support behind calls for an increase in the financial aid proposed and for a co-financing rate of 90 % , rather than 80 % , in relation to the role of NGOs and social partners . 
Let us be clear : the current economic strategies are driving more and more people into poverty within the European Union , and our hope is that PROGRESS can help play an important role in the fight against social exclusion . 
The strengthening of gender equality should be supported wholeheartedly by this Parliament , especially those elements which emphasise actions promoting gender equality that aim to combat discrimination and access to employment , career development , pay and training , and that fight the causes of poverty and social exclusion . 
This is a real and immediate issue for women in particular . 
In Ireland , for example , the gender pay gap has substantially increased for women and the gap between men 's and women 's pay in Ireland is among the largest of any EU Member State . 
If we want to see fundamental change within society and bring in this fundamental change in mindsets and conditions , we must support this programme and this report . 
I will be voting for this . 
. Madam President , the tsunami affected large numbers of people in Indonesia , Sri Lanka , Thailand and the Maldives . 
The response of the European population , European governments , the European Commission and the Member States was overwhelming . 
In Sri Lanka alone , institutional and public commitments came to about EUR 5.8 billion . 
In Indonesia some EUR 8 billion has been committed . 
However , promises and delivery , pledges and action are very different . 
I have just returned from Sri Lanka and Indonesia . 
In Indonesia I talked to Mr Kuntoro Mangkusubroto , head of the Indonesian reconstruction agency . 
He told me they can not spend the money as quickly as we think they can . 
He thought he could spend it in four years , while the President of Indonesia wants to spend it over a period of five years . 
The government is blaming the international NGOs and the NGOs are blaming the government . 
I am the budget draftsman of the Committee on Development . 
We adopted that opinion yesterday in my committee . 
I tried to explain that , although the needs of the Commission are paramount , I recognise that it has to make commitments , put money in the trust fund and then start spending those funds on whatever projects we have undertaken . 
The capacity of Sri Lanka and Indonesia to absorb this huge amount of money transparently and properly is minimal . 
The Sri Lankans are still shifting paper around while people are still living in tents . 
Nothing has changed in the last seven months , since 26 December 2004 . 
It is a tragedy and a scandal . 
However , we need to understand that , no matter how generous we are in giving and in wanting to help the people most in need , absorptive capacity and the ability to act fast in times of crisis are limited . 
As we have seen in New Orleans , even the most powerful nation in the world is unable to cope with tragedies of this kind . 
It has taught us that our Humanitarian Office , ECHO , has more expertise and is better prepared to deal with these emergencies than any other institution in the world . 
The one positive contribution we can make is to teach people what we have already learned on many occasions . 
One of the things we can do with the tsunami and in New Orleans is to give advice and guidance . 
Mr Frattini , although you do not have the formal powers to take infringement proceedings , as you quite rightly stated , can you use your influence to determine a greater transparency between Europol and the institutions ? 
In a recent report on Europol , all sides in this House felt that transparency was totally lacking . 
However , we felt that the work of Europol was hugely valuable and that it is an effective organisation with a new director trying to invigorate the organisation . 
Given the importance of the topics that it deals with , can you use your influence to increase the transparency arrangements , which will only make the organisation more effective ? 
Some MEPs have tried to remove the issue of natural ` sunlight ' from the Report . 
As a Labour MEP , I backed the UK Government and the Council line to back the common position as we believe it is a good balance between protectionism and over regulation . 
In contrast to Mr Newton Dunn earlier , I am more than happy and satisfied with that answer . 
Could the President-in-Office amplify or underline what Charles Clarke has been saying over the past couple of days , that in order fully to deal with terrorism , with cross-border crime -- a far more difficult task than it at first seems to the general public -- we must attempt to promote a Europol that functions to its true potential and operates as transparently as possible within the rules , within the new directive -- which you have rightly said is an efficient and good addition to Europol -- so that we can attack terrorism at its roots as well as organised crime ? 
In developing important retention of data powers , it is equally important to ensure that the powers are workable , are developed in close partnership with Internet Service Providers and that we achieve proportionality in relation to how long data can be retained . 
It is clear in the light of the London Bombings that my own Government wanted to see effective powers to tackle terrorism and as a London MEP , I want to ensure these powers are both effective and proportionate , and that they help to the UK public safe . 
It is vital in my view , having practiced asylum law in the past , that we do not erode completely individual assessment for asylum seekers and the Geneva Convention 's ` non-refoulement ' Principal ( principal by which governments may not turn refugees away automatically without having their case heard or checking subjective or objective elements to genuine asylum cases ) . 
With sufficient training such an advance would protect passengers in health and safety terms on rail journeys across EU countries . 
I believe that passengers ' rights should not only apply to international rail passengers , but also to national ones . 
I believe that the minimum compensation guidelines set out by the Committee for unacceptable delays are broadly correct . 
I believe strongly that passengers who hold season tickets and encounter repeated delays or cancellations should receive compensation in the form of free journeys , price reductions or an extension of the period of validity of a season ticket . 
Mr President , I wish to thank the President-in-Office and Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner for the excellent work they have already done at the UN . 
I was privileged to co-chair the delegation to the UN with my distinguished colleague , Michel Rocard , the former Prime Minister of France . 
We need a United Nations which reflects the shared values of ordinary people and which delivers them . 
Today we live in a global market full of images . 
The tsunami in Indonesia , the floods in New Orleans and terrorism in London become local events : local in my village , in my reality , in my home and among my friends . 
This is ` unity through diversity ' , not ` one-size fits all ' . 
How can the UN exist in this brave new world and still be relevant ? 
The UN has no legislative powers , nor is it a world government . 
It is merely an organisation that delivers . 
The best thing to have happened to the United Nations , in hindsight , is the United States suddenly having become more serious about its delivery capability . 
Business as usual is therefore no longer an option and Messrs Ping and Annan have done excellent work in starting the process of reform . 
Excellent work is already being done by the UN 's specialised agencies such as the WHO , UNDP , the World Food Programme , the IMO and the ICO , but even here there is scope for an in-depth review to ensure best value for money and the highest quality of management . 
Those organisations may be delivering , but the UN process itself in New York is not . 
We should limit the process in New York and instead focus on UN agencies as outputs . 
We need to draw upon best-practice in government and large corporations . 
A long-range planning group should be established to predict crisis situations well in advance . 
Poverty , disease , conflict and despair are often the result of poor national governance . 
We should help to increase capacity and give aid to those who can use it wisely . 
I am pleased to announce that the European Parliament , through the Committee on Development and Cooperation has already proposed that an amount of around EUR 2 million be allocated under the budget for quick-win impacts and also , following a meeting with the Commissioner in New York , for the Peace Building Commission . 
An effective system of international governance and justice is one that brings to justice those who have committed crimes against humanity . 
We also have a right to protect . 
Mr President , I wish to say that this has been a very important and excellent debate . 
Mr President , I would like to thank my friend Robert for a very Sturdy speech ! 
I can only support this report very reluctantly because the tone of it is not quite right . 
China has a civilisation that is much older than most of ours and our relationship with China is a relationship of equals in which neither side really has the right to lecture the other . 
China has its own way of doing things . 
We must continue to find ways of cooperating with China and if each side of the relationship tries hard enough to understand and accommodate the basic concerns of the other , by looking ahead in a proactive way , the future is bright . 
But if we fail , we will be plunged into damaging and acrimonious competition . 
The recent crisis over textile imports should be a lesson to us all . 
Today the EU-China relationship is in a very active and productive phase and bilateral relationships are in a more mature , healthy and stable condition than ever . 
We have to develop this with diligence and sensitivity , striving always to find common ground and to minimise our inevitable differences . 
We need to maximise our trading synergies and work together on the big international problems of our age , including terrorism , nuclear proliferation and the fight against hunger and disease . 
I have no doubt that there are such people on both sides of our relationship and I look forward to a bright and mutually rewarding future in cooperation with China . 
Human rights abuses have been rife ; NGOs have published shocking reports of child soldiers fighting for Maoists , and who , if captured , were imprisoned by the state . 
We also heard of villages being destroyed in the midst of armed conflict and minorities being targeted for discrimination . 
However , very little has been done to quell this particular situation . 
Disbanding the government in February has only served to increase civil unrest and demonstrations and to harden the stance of the Maoists , with restrictions placed on the media and political players doing nothing to help restore public confidence or restart the process of democracy . 
We in the European Parliament have been disappointed that our previous resolution was ignored . 
If changes are not made , the situation will worsen . 
Nepal is among the poorest and least-developed countries in the world . 
However , it has so much to offer . 
We must do all in our power to allow this beautiful and inspiring people to develop into a peaceful nation once again . 
Campaigners in my constituency have also spoken about access to goods and services ; the fact that in each Member State , including in western Europe , the treatment is completely different for the owners of guide dogs , for example . 
While a lot of good work has been done in this place , we should be aware that these concerns are bubbling under the surface . 
Recent press stories have revealed many thousands of people involved in NGOs who want to see us do better . 
Finally , closer to home , we must ensure that we have inclusive design for our new Parliament buildings . 
Much good work has been done in this area , but we must emphasise it because it will come back to haunt us if we do not get it right . 
I hope we will . 
The main areas which would boost EU competitiveness include increases for programmes to support small and medium-sized companies , but above all for the 6th framework research programme . 
The payments for education programmes are also increased , by 35 million euros for Socrates , 20 million euros for Leonardo da Vinci and 3 million euros for e-learning , which I fully support . 
Mr President , last Friday Condoleezza Rice , the US Secretary of State , ordered the highest level enquiry into the leaks to the Washington Post and Human Rights Watch . 
Clearly the United States Government believes there is some veracity in these allegations . 
Today the Commissioner has , on the one hand , told us that the Copenhagen criteria might have been breached by Romania and that Article 6 may be being breached by Poland , but we already knew that . 
The Commissioner has come here today and told us that there is no evidence of these breaches . 
Well , both Poland and Romania issued official government-level denials last week , so we knew that . 
Mr Lambrinidis said we already knew that the CIA operated black sites and torture centres in other parts of the world . 
We want to know if it is happening in the European Union . 
We want to know if it is happening in the candidate countries . 
We need an investigation which brings credibility to this House so that we can leave this debate knowing whether this is true or false . 
Commissioner , thank you for restating your commitment to the principle of the free movement of workers . 
I very much agree . 
However , I should like to ask you whether you plan to research or analyse , from the Commission point of view , the decision by the United Kingdom and other countries to open up their labour markets to free movement of labour immediately , as opposed to those countries which impose restrictions . 
Is this something that you plan to do and could you tell us if it is a feasible idea ? 
Mr Wijkman 's report makes it clear that living up to the Kyoto requirements is the first priority of the EU . 
Whilst Kyoto is only a small step in the fight against climate change , we must throw our support behind it and urge those who have not signed up to do so immediately . 
This morning I was glad to hear the Commission and the Council stress the importance of the next phase , because the real challenge is to set ambitious targets for the post-2012 period and to get all the major world actors involved . 
I also want to support the amendments made by my colleagues in the GUE/NGL Group , particularly the assertion that the promotion of an unbridled free market has led to excess consumption , which in turn leads to increased emissions of greenhouse gases . 
Mr President , I speak on behalf of the great majority of the GUE/NGL Group . 
We voted in favour today , even though this legislation it is not as strong as we would have wished , because we need legislation that will protect lives and workers ' health , as well as the environment . 
We are very pleased that the packages we have agreed with others on authorisation and on the duty of care have been accepted . 
The regulation of chemicals within the EU must give proper protection to workers , consumers and the environment while , at the same time , being workable and maintaining the competitiveness of European industry and thereby ensuring jobs . 
We are very disappointed with the Nassauer-Sacconi compromise on registration . 
What we need is a strong REACH regulation that will give us the information needed to assess whether chemicals are dangerous , even those chemicals produced in low tonnages . 
It is with these principles in place that public health and workers ' health is best defended . 
Every serious impact assessment of the REACH proposal shows the immense health benefits of a workable chemicals policy and this is in stark contrast to the exaggerated industry calculations . 
I would like to see a rapid , efficient system for collecting the necessary information on chemicals and for tackling those of most concern , whilst minimising animal testing and maintaining the competitiveness of the chemical industry . 
I believe that vertebrate animal testing should be kept to the absolute minimum necessary to ensure that sufficient information is available for decision-making on health and environmental protection . 
I support the UK 's proposal for a system of ` one substance , one registration ' , whereby all manufacturers or importers of the same substance would work together to provide one set of ` core ' data for registration . 
That would ensure that an agreed package of information would be assembled at registration , thereby providing coherent information for the benefit of users and consumers . 
Mr President , I recently monitored the presidential election in Kazakhstan with a group of senior British politicians and academics . 
I have some experience in these matters , having monitored the election in Indonesia last year , which was probably the most complicated election the world had ever seen . 
The British group came to the conclusion that the elections in Kazakhstan were free and without coercion . 
Several other groups from Belgium , France , the CIS , the USA and Indonesia came to the same conclusion . 
The spokesman of one of the opposition candidates said after the election that the opposition had blown it by concentrating on personalities rather than policies . 
We completely disagreed with the conclusions of the OSCE monitoring group , which produced an expensive , dismissive and academically pompous report condemning the election process . 
The OSCE also contradicted the previous statement of the Members of this House following last year 's parliamentary election , which concluded that the Kazakh electorate is now sophisticated and beyond coercion or intimidation . 
I believe the OSCE report was influenced by its internal bureaucracy on the future chairmanship of the organisation . 
Bureaucrats should not attempt to play politics , nor try to dictate who the chairman should be . 
It will bring the OSCE into disrepute , a state of affairs not desired by this House . 
I would now call on this House to have an inquiry into the workings of the OSCE . 
Mr President , Italian colleagues will know that , a few days , ago , the international football player Marc Zoro had to leave the football pitch because of persistent racist abuse . 
This is something within the beautiful game , the European game , which is making the game ugly . 
Every day we see incidents across all our Member States of racist abuse : some of it organised , some of it isolated . 
We have practical measures , working with the media , to stamp out this cancer from the game . 
Recently , Italian television played some of its matches in black and white rather than in colour to make the point to Italian society and to all of European society that we must not tolerate racism in football . 
We have the World Cup next year : let us send a unified message from this House that we will not tolerate the beautiful game becoming ugly . 
Mr President , I would like to congratulate all those who have worked hard to put in place the 2006 budget , especially our rapporteur , Mr Pittella . 
I have just three points for the Commission and Council to reflect on . 
Firstly , every year we have a similar struggle to agree the EU budget . 
It is increasingly a challenging task due to ever more exceptional demands on the EU at home and abroad . 
At the same time , the traditional priorities continue to require as much spending as before . 
I do not think , therefore , that we should worry if the budget requires a heated and lengthy debate to achieve a compromise solution . 
However , we should be concerned by the fact that , after devoting time , money and effort debating , negotiating and agreeing the budget , we then fail to use the funds . 
This is totally unacceptable and I know that many others , including Mr Garriga Polledo , have made this point . 
I would ask the Commissioner to take full responsibility for improving implementation , not only in the programmes that the Commission champions , but also in respecting Parliament 's will . 
The fiercely negotiated funds must have an impact on the lives of EU citizens and it is payments that have the most direct effect . 
My second point is that collectively we need to be more aware of our public image and the importance of demonstrating the collaborative working habits that drive the EU project and inspire confidence in the European Union . 
These are currently clearly lacking . 
I would like the Commission to note that Parliament has improved resources for communication policy . 
Now it is the responsibility of Commission officials to be more imaginative . 
In this age of the competitive mass communications market , the need to sell ourselves and our EU vision and deliver a clear , simple and compelling message is absolutely imperative . 
That goes for Parliament too . 
Outdated , incomprehensible legacies such as our travelling circuses do nothing to help us win this game . 
The Council needs to think seriously about this dysfunctional heading . 
Mr President , I voted in the way that I did on various amendments on the Blokland report on batteries , accumulators and their waste because I believe that this directive will reduce heavy metal waste from batteries and improve recycling in my London constituency . 
I support the prohibitions in the common position and believe that any further prohibitions must be the subject of full impact assessments . 
However , I do not want to pre-empt the outcome of the EU Technical Working Group which has been set up to look at this issue by calling for any legislation in this field . 
I believe that the EU must look at all methods of attracting investment and is not convinced that a harmonised tax base will attract further foreign investment particularly to the City of London . 
Mr President , there are many difficulties with the British Presidency 's proposals for the financial perspectives , which the chairman of my group , Mr Wurtz , and others have outlined here this morning . 
Those include lower than previously proposed amounts for rural development , cohesion funds for the newest Member States , culture , youth and health and consumer protection . 
I would plead in favour of one aspect , however : the funding for the EU programme to support peace in the north of Ireland . 
That is necessary if we are to continue the valuable work of peace-building , tackling discrimination and promoting national reconciliation . 
It is imperative that the opportunity for peace in Ireland is not squandered , which means that there is also an onus on the British Government to ensure political progress in Ireland in 2006 . 
In representing London , the city with one of the highest numbers of Internet service providers in the EU , safeguards are important . 
I should like to ask the President-in-Office to continue the good work done during the UK Presidency of looking at the best possible models of diversity and of best practice and integration . 
As this is your last Council Question Time , let me take this opportunity to say what many Members across this House have said to me : that you have answered criticism with good grace and you and your civil service team sitting behind you will leave this Presidency with a reputation for listening to Members and making every effort to answer their questions . 
. I voted as I did on this resolution because , along with many concerned London constituents , I believe there should be an objective investigation of allegations , both of the alleged use of EU countries by the CIA for the transportation of prisoners , and the alleged use of European soil for the illegal detention of prisoners . 
I wholeheartedly welcome Mrs Prets ' report on combating the trafficking of slaves and those who are vulnerable to sexual exploitation . 
It is a flagrant denial of the fundamental rights of a human being and must be addressed effectively . 
I welcome the Commissioner 's comment that practical support must be provided for those who are victims of trafficking . 
Allowing those who come forward to remain in the country would be one way of helping them to get out of the situation they find themselves in . 
I would caution against approaching this problem , as we heard from one person here tonight , with a ` fortress Europe ' mentality and using this as an excuse to reinforce borders . 
I welcome the report 's emphasis on setting defined targets to tackle trafficking in the coming years with a view to its total eradication . 
. My party strongly supports measures which assist the upward harmonisation of human and civil rights for all citizens of Member States . 
I strongly endorse those elements of the Catania report which sought to raise the issue of migrant workers ' rights , particularly their civil and political rights to citizenship and electoral participation . 
Sinn Féin strongly believes that migrant workers should have full access to civil and human rights and that Member States should have a fair and equality-focused process of naturalisation for those migrant workers who choose to avail themselves of such mechanisms . 
I abstained in the final vote on Giusto Catania 's report on the Commission 's Fourth report on Citizenship of the Union ( A6-0411 / 2005 ) on the basis that Sinn Féin policy regards issues of citizenship , elections and political participation as matters whose primary location should be within the governing institutions of the Member State . 
The problem must be tackled with maximum consideration for the victims of trafficking so that they do not suffer a ` double punishment ' in the justice systems of EU countries . 
Mr President , EU leaders promised to make a decisive impact on the eradication of poverty by 2010 , yet more than half way through the ten-year period of the Lisbon Agenda this has not happened . 
In the light of this , the Lisbon Agenda 's pledge to tackle gender equality must also be viewed with a degree of scepticism . 
Mrs Estrela 's report put forward practical measures for ensuring gender equality , including employment opportunities for women , and I thank her for her very good work . 
On average there is a pay gap of 15 % across the EU , but in a recent survey in my country , Ireland , it emerged that the gender pay gap has grown : it has increased for women in spite of Ireland 's economic growth . 
Irish women are paid 17 % less than Irish men for the same work , so it is clear , as Mrs Estrela says , that growth and jobs alone will not bring gender equality . 
President Barroso told Parliament yesterday of his commitment to the roadmap for gender equality , dealing amongst other matters with employment and with reducing the pay gap . 
I commend Mrs Estrela 's report to him and to Commissioner Michel as a good basis for progress in this area . 
Mr President , I want to draw your attention to a recent conference held in London on drugs in Afghanistan . 
We face a grave threat from a flood of heroin made from the Afghan poppy , destroying the lives of Europeans , especially young Europeans . 
As Chairman of the Afghan Circle in the European Parliament , I know the problem faced by the leaders of Afghanistan , whom I have met many times , with over 60 % of their economy being dependent on the poppy . 
The distinguished Foreign Minister of Kazakhstan , Mr Tokaev , for example , said that Kazakhstan is funding a programme which provides Afghan farmers with alternative seeds , equipment and advice on growing alternative crops . 
Others are doing the same and , as you know , Britain is playing a leading role in the war against drugs . 
I urge you to reject the services directive . 
It disproportionately affects women , both as the majority of workers in the service sector and as users of those services , and I agree with points made this evening about decisions ending up with the Court of Justice . 
People marched in their tens of thousands today to oppose this , but we put governments on notice : the struggle will be at its most intense at national level . 
I welcome close coordination of Member States in negotiation inside the IMF . 
My approach is to recognise that mercury is a highly toxic substance and to support the Commission strategy and impact assessment . 
-- On a point of order , I am not sure that the point has been understood . 
The Austrian Presidency chose to change the system for answering Council questions , which meant a three-month wait for many people who are listed here , including myself . 
Mr Newton Dunn made that point . 
We have waited for three months . 
However , can you please now review that decision and go back to the old system ? 
This one simply does not work . 
We have put down serious questions on radicalisation and other issues , which have now not been answered after three months . 
Please consider going back to the old system . 
. -- Mr President , I too want to thank Mr Grech for his hard work and the excellent report he has produced on the guidelines for the 2007 budget procedure . 
I really hope , as the report suggests , that the institutions can submit realistic requests based on budgetary rigour in the light of the current tight financial situation . 
Like the rapporteur , I am convinced that in all the institutions we can work more cost-effectively , without compromising standards . 
I would urge all those responsible -- which means each of us and all members of all the institutions -- to keep this in mind and change our working habits accordingly . 
I should like to highlight some other aspects of the report that I believe are particularly important . 
We have had a reference to the area of information and communication . 
I applaud the emphasis on results as opposed simply to spending . 
Expensive solutions are not always the most effective . 
As the rapporteur suggests , we should not be afraid to discontinue tools or strategies that are not delivering the desired results . 
That means regular monitoring and clear and appropriate distribution of responsibilities . 
We have had a reference to information tools . 
Very many young people actually get most of their information from the internet . 
If it is properly managed and properly handled , it could be a new way of connecting with citizens and pushing forward our objectives . 
We need to find better ways , but this needs to be properly handled . 
I am very much in favour of the idea of having web-TV and seeing how all the institutions can work together to get our information across to different members of society . 
In tackling those incidents , and in general , the Commission and others should ensure that the priority must be to tackle the gangs which force women into these situations , rather than ` softer options ' of targeting often vulnerable women forced into sexual slavery . 
I voted for paragraph 9 , part 2 , on the endowment of the globalisation and adjustment fund by businesses as this is a voluntary donation . 
I voted for both parts of Article 47 , because I believe there should be a statute for Members ' assistants by 2009 . 
Mr President , current fears regarding any possible mutation of bird flu means that the public is aware of the need for a joined-up strategy in relation to communicable diseases . 
At the same time , we need to recognise that non-communicable diseases are by far the greatest causes of the burden of disease and we need to put our resources where they will be most effective . 
I also ask the House to support the amendment that calls for the involvement of disadvantaged communities in the shaping of future health policies . 
We can not hope to tackle the inequalities in health without the active input of those whose life experience makes them experts in this field . 
I also support the inclusion of complementary and alternative medicine in the action supported by the programme and I strongly support health as a separate programme from consumer protection . 
The Community action programme in health has the potential to support the mainstreaming of health in all Community policies . 
The EU is in a unique position to complement the work undertaken in Member States , to study the impact of other policies on health , to promote access to information , to improve the early detection evaluation and communication of risks and to make recommendations on best practice . 
I would like to welcome the report 's call for fuel tax exemptions to promote the production of biofuels . 
Such a policy would move us closer to the EU 's target of 5.75 % for the consumption of biofuels . 
The active development of renewable energy will go some way towards addressing the fossil fuel crisis . 
It can lead to environmental improvements , although I agree with both the rapporteur and the Commissioner here this morning that we need to monitor this environmental impact . 
It can , and will , also bring economic benefits through developing new technologies , job creation and retooling in the agricultural sector , in particular where sugar factories are earmarked for closure . 
It is this kind of price fixing and long-term contracts which have led to disparities between London and continental gas prices . 
The positive experiences of Ireland should encourage other countries which introduced transitional arrangements to lift these restrictions . 
Sinn Féin and the trade union movement support the decision not to introduce transitional arrangements in Ireland . 
I have signed the written declaration here in Parliament calling for such restrictions to be lifted . 
I reiterate that call here today and I welcome Mr Őry 's report in that context . 
However , we must go further than this : we can not ignore the issue of employment conditions and the exploitation of workers . 
Even in Ireland , unscrupulous employers have used the lack of free movement of workers in the EU to introduce discrimination as regards salaries and working conditions based on nationality . 
We must combat this strongly . 
Mrs Oomen-Ruijten mentioned the restrictions placed on social security . 
We must also combat any discrimination in access to social protection for EU citizens who travel to another Member State to work or to seek work . 
Whilst I support the intention of Amendment 3 in alleviating these costs , the amendment is inappropriate as it provides for a blanket limit to all patient protection for products related to this field which could distort markets at a global level and potentially harm further development . 
This is a key programme , be it citizens for Europe , or Europe of citizens . 
The last time we asked this question in 1992 , half the EU citizens surveyed said that they never felt European . 
I think that figure has probably decreased over time , but not as dramatically as we would like . 
But whether we feel it or not , we are European citizens and we share the rights and privileges citizenship brings . 
This programme should make people aware and proud of their EU citizenship . 
However , it is important to remember that we already have invested in similar programmes aimed at engaging with citizens . 
The problem has been that the Commission 's strategy in this area has been piecemeal and confused . 
Therefore , what I would like to ask the Commission is : can it guarantee that this is not going to be just one more programme ? 
Will it really make a difference ? 
Will it be linking with other actions in a coherent , overarching strategy ? 
I really hope so , but I would like the Commission to explain how . 
Speaking , as I am , on behalf of the Committee on Budgets , I am concerned that the ambitions are not backed by resources . 
Therefore , once again we are raising expectations only to dash them . 
I can understand all the Members wanting to address their preferred issues within the scope of this programme , but the funding for it , I believe , is far from adequate and we need to look very closely at some of the amendments that have been put forward . 
Finally , I wish this programme every success and hope that the monitoring and evaluation issues that the Committee on Budgets has put forward are taken up . 
There is no doubt that overcoming corruption in the allocation of development aid is one of the main obstacles that we face in achieving the Millennium Development Goals . 
While concern mounts over a deficiency in funding for MDGs , we must ensure that the aid is being provided to developing countries and is being allocated efficiently . 
With increasing levels of aid , there is growing concern that politicians and officials will misuse money intended for the world 's poor . 
As Mr van den Berg said , corruption is widespread , affecting every sector and bureaucracy . 
We must remember , however , that it is by no means solely a problem for developing countries . 
There is a common argument that aid should not be channelled through government . 
However , we are increasing budget support and I am pleased to hear what the Commissioner has said about strengthening institutions to eliminate corruption through budget support and the reform of the public sector . 
Massive restructuring of civil service and public financial management is necessary . 
Often these reforms are the sole responsibility of a few select civil servants . 
How can we expect people to implement the necessary reforms if they are not paid accordingly ? 
I suggest to the Commissioner that we recognise and acknowledge about 200 civil servants in each developing country as the key players in the decision-making process and include them in budget support . 
Why do we not follow Singapore 's example and give these civil servants extra supplementary incomes , comparable to our standards , so that they are not tempted to take bribes to keep their families in the style to which they have become accustomed ? 
We also need to deregulate . 
If we deregulate as much as possible in the developing countries , we will have a chance to address this problem . 
After all , regulation was used as a colonial instrument : the power of the paper , as opposed to the soldier in the village , to enact the imperial master 's wishes . 
We need to get the national parliaments in developing countries empowered with thorough investigative capacities to look at corruption in those administrations . 
I congratulate Mr van den Berg on an excellent report and I am very pleased to hear what the Commissioner has said . 
Mr President , it has been over a year since King Gyanendra of Nepal seized absolute power . 
On behalf of the SAARC Delegation , may I say how pleased we are that the King has now relented and yesterday agreed to the restoration of democracy . 
However , this is only the first step towards establishing real peace and lasting democracy . 
It is absolutely essential that the Maoists now become part of the democratic process and renounce violence . 
I urge them , as the Chairwoman of the Delegation for relations with the countries of South Asia and the South Asia Association for Regional Cooperation , to listen and act on this message . 
Over the last three weeks , the world has witnessed intense protests and suffering in Nepal and we are very relieved to see that peace is finally being restored to the streets of Kathmandu . 
However , the EU and all the external partners involved in this process must be vigilant that this positive turn of events is a real watershed ; this must not be another missed opportunity for democracy in Nepal . 
We will have to watch developments very carefully . 
I strongly urge the Commission , the Council and all external partners to take the necessary measures to prevent any possibility of this country relapsing into confusion and violence . 
Mr President , a version of the envisaged North of Ireland Assembly has reconvened today in Belfast . 
At present , British ministers make all policy decisions in the North of Ireland , yet are not accountable to voters there . 
It is time for Ian Paisley 's Democratic Unionist Party to move forward with the rest of us , on the basis of equality , to fully restore the North of Ireland Assembly and the power-sharing executive . 
The recent sectarian killing of Catholic teenager Michael McIlveen shows that much change is still needed in our society . 
Continued assistance and support at European level are also needed . 
This is a campaign which some of my London constituents have been working with me on , under the guidance of the UK-based War on Want charity . 
For this reason I supported amendments that would exclude Western Sahara from the scope of the agreement and voted against the agreement when the exclusion amendments fell . 
Thank you , Commissioner , for that very comprehensive clarification of a complex issue . 
The issue for us is : one , we have to get the right information out there and , two , how do we assure that with the Commission proposals , as you have outlined , this information reaches the public at large ? 
I can read you a number of emails that I have received in which people are very concerned . 
Recently the WTO confirmed the ruling against the EU in the case of GMOs . 
What implications are there for this in what you have just stated as the policy ? 
Mr President , may I add my congratulations to Mr Berger and the Parliament team , particularly Mr Walter . 
They all worked very hard through difficult and drawn-out negotiations to achieve this agreement . 
I firmly believe that , given the circumstances , the best and most sensible deal was brokered . 
Parliament was right to push Member States to put more resources behind the ambitious programmes that all the governments and political leaders have signed up to . 
But , more importantly , the negotiations have had key outcomes , non-financial gains that add value and will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of future budgets . 
Let me highlight just three : the reinforcement of Member States ' responsibility to improve expenditure control in order to achieve a positive Court of Auditor 's statement , an improvement in the execution of EU programmes and an effective input from Parliament into the budgetary review in 2008 . 
One reason we had so many problems in getting agreement on future financing was that the Commission missed an opportunity to address the root problem of the current financial framework , namely the lack of flexibility . 
I therefore urge the Commission not to miss the boat again . 
Now we must build an EU financial framework that demonstrates transparency , one that is rigorous and displays solidarity . 
It has to be free from the legacies of the past ; a framework that must combine the visions of over 27 Member States and is flexible enough to face future challenges . 
Madam President , last year we saw millions of young people marching to make poverty history . 
Poverty matters to them ; it matters to us . 
Also last year , we saw the people of Europe -- France and the Netherlands -- reject the Constitution , because to them the EU was too remote from their concerns . 
We now have a chance to bring their concerns about poverty and our concerns about connecting with the people of Europe together . 
This Parliament is the point of connection , the point of transparency and accountability . 
That is why codecision is so important . 
That is why transparency is so important . 
That is why accountability is so important . 
That is why replacing 16 codecision instruments with one will not work : replacing instruments on AIDS , tuberculosis and malaria , replacing policies on sexual and reproductive health , on measures to promote the full integration of environmental dimensions , on measures to promote the consolidation of sustainable management of forests -- including those in developing counties , policies on consolidating democracy and the rule of law , on respecting human rights , on promoting gender equality in developing countries , on decentralised cooperation , on cofinancing with other NGOs , on food aid and food management , on development cooperation with South Africa , with Latin America , with Asia -- it must be dotty ! 
Whoever in the Commission thought this up ? 
I do not think that the Commissioner has anything to do with it . 
We have to set policy . 
Parliaments are there to set policy , to implement and oversee the implementation of policy and to account for money . 
That is what parliaments are for and we can not avoid our responsibilities . 
I do not think that anybody in the Commission should think that the MEPs in this Parliament are going to abrogate their duties . 
I congratulate Mr Mitchell on a very good report . 
Mr President , I should like to congratulate Mr Elles for the Annual Policy Strategy report . 
Speaking as rapporteur for the Committee on Industry , Research and Energy , firstly , I would like to say that I support the rapporteur in urging the Commission and Member States to focus on areas that are the bases of healthy and thriving modern economies : research and development , innovation , knowledge , skills , telecommunications and energy . 
Effective investment in those areas pays excellent dividends in the long run . 
The EU can not be short-sighted and still compete globally and reverse the brain-drain leading to slower economic growth than might otherwise be the case . 
Secondly , I also back the rapporteur when he calls for Member States to implement existing and proposed legislation to help complete the single market . 
The Lisbon Strategy has not been sufficiently prioritised , despite the fact that it seeks improvement in areas where citizens want progress , like creating growth in jobs . 
As President Barroso told this House in his first address in July 2004 , we must show our citizens that Europe can deliver what it promises . 
Thirdly , speaking as a member of the Committee on Budgets , I have to say that I disagree with the emphasis the rapporteur has placed on our strategic partnership with the United States . 
I believe the EU must build solid and constructive relations with all global players to an equal extent , especially since a very disappointing cut in funding in Heading 4 has been proposed by the Commissioner in the PDB . 
We do not want to return millions of euros to the Member States at the end of the year . 
I want first of all to thank Mrs Krehl for her report and for the open and inclusive way in which it was produced . 
There are some elements I disagree with , but the report goes some way towards bringing a measure of social and environmental balance into the strategic guidelines . 
It is important for the European Parliament to argue strongly for a more balanced set of guidelines and explicitly to reject earmarking and the thinking behind that approach , which would only compound the imbalances inherent now in Lisbon and in the present Commission guidelines . 
The championing of Lisbon over Gothenburg and of some elements of Lisbon over others in the Commission 's original guidelines is worrying . 
We must direct the guidelines in a way that reflects the principal function of cohesion policy and the holistic development of Europe 's regions , not just business growth . 
I particularly welcome paragraph 9 of Mrs Krehl 's report , with its demand that sound partnership between all parties be enshrined in the regulations and guidelines and its support for the strengthening of civil society . 
I was particularly glad to hear Commissioner Piebalgs recognise that here this evening . 
Thanks once again and congratulations to Mrs Krehl on her report . 
In particular , I voted in favour of Amendment 12 on the violation of human rights in the Western Sahara , which was a free vote . 
Other forms of environmental action on floods are urgently required . 
I believe there is no justification for creating such an agency and no budget either . 
The SAARC delegation and I , as its chairman , have been concerned since the imposition of direct rule by the King , and have worked with the Troika to promote a return to democracy . 
Finally this has taken place . 
The new government faces many challenges , including limiting the King 's power and bringing the military under democratic control . 
I therefore welcome the fact that today they are already discussing a new role for the monarchy , which I hope will prevent any kind of return to the disruption to democracy that we saw over the last year . 
The main priority for my delegation is to see the establishment of lasting peace , and Maoist cooperation is pivotal to achieving this . 
The fact that the ceasefire has been respected is an indication that the right environment for peace talks is being created . 
However , I call on the Maoists to demonstrate their genuine commitment to stop recruiting militia , to put an end to any extortion and to return confiscated land . 
Both sides need to make the ceasefire permanent and to enter into a constructive dialogue as soon as possible , with the aim of holding free and fair elections and putting the Maoists on the same footing as the other political parties . 
I support what Mr Mulder said in terms of the European Union 's role and how we ensure that we get lasting peace in Nepal . 
The Human Rights Commission is now up and running . 
There is no final military solution to this conflict , which has now raged in the country of my birth for over 25 years . 
Thousands of people have died and , with no possibility of a military solution , we must negotiate and talk until a commonality of interest is found . 
Who should do the talking ? 
The European Union is a Co-Chair and I am led to believe that the Council has decided to ban the LTTE as a terrorist organisation . 
But we must continue to talk and the EU and the Co-Chairs , including Norway , in consultation with India , now have the role of peacemakers . 
We have to bring peace to the island . 
The intransigence of the LTTE , which periodically talks peace and then goes back to war , has got to stop . 
The international community is not going to be fooled anymore by this stop-go , stop-go process . 
I would like to thank my colleagues in this Parliament for the cooperation and understanding they have shown in this matter . 
All parties must abandon violence once and for all . 
After an encouraging return to the negotiating table in February , the LTTE 's refusal to participate in the second round in April was very disappointing . 
The LTTE needs to resume peace negotiations with the Government of Sri Lanka , and the government too must be careful not to jeopardise the very delicate peace process . 
In my view the Commission needs to play a more proactive role to enable this process to move forward . 
The European Union , as we have heard , is a Co-Chair , but we appear to be playing a rather passive role , rather than seeing ourselves as dynamic players . 
I believe that together with the other Co-Chairs -- the USA , Norway and Japan -- we should urgently consider how we can strengthen Norway 's role as facilitator , in order to make positive progress towards a peaceful resolution and to get an agreed roadmap to end this conflict . 
The European Union is pouring enormous resources into Sri Lanka . 
We need to get some real results to ensure that the lives of the people there are remarkably improved . 
Mr President , given that yesterday the Government of Sri Lanka announced the formation of a Human Rights Commission , could we make an oral correction to our joint resolution ? 
I applaud Louis Grech on the emphasis on improving the effective use of the funds . 
For this reason , I strongly support the introduction of activity-based budgeting . 
I have been asking for this system to be adopted by the Parliament for the last five years , as it provides an opportunity to demonstrate greater transparency . 
I have been disappointed , however , by the reluctance of the administration to introduce such a system and I think it is about time we did so . 
Therefore , I would ask the Secretary-General to take this issue up very seriously and see what progress we can make on that front . 
The second issue I want to raise is the annual question of the car service . 
I do not go along with what is in the report , namely to increase the support of additional funds for the chauffeur service for the Members . 
I support the amendment that the Verts/ALE Group has put forward , which is to look at the service and see how we can improve it without increasing the funds . 
We do not need to start increasing funds , especially when we have taxi reimbursement available for Members . 
On information and communication , we can not stress enough the need for results that are essential for us to connect with the citizens . 
I thoroughly support the suggestions of having web TV and an improved visitors ' centre . 
My constituency in the north of Ireland has seen a number of violent attacks on communities from other Member States and from further afield , as well as a consistent level of homophobic violence . 
We also experience ongoing sectarian attacks , such as the recent murder of a 15-year old Catholic boy , Michael McIlveen . 
It is absolutely vital that the Council now adopt the 2001 Framework Decision on Combating Racism and Xenophobia . 
I would echo calls for the Finnish Presidency to restart work on this with all urgency and , as we have heard today , for the Council to adopt the decisions without watering them down . 
National governments and other institutions must respond adequately . 
President-in-Office , if you have been subject to racial or homophobic violence you will never forget it . 
What I would say to my Polish colleagues , and to anyone else who doubts that action can be taken here in this House today , is that we want action . 
The Council framework decision is at the heart of this resolution . 
I would say to those colleagues who disagree about whether we should name individuals , I have to agree with it , because it is a deeply personal tragedy which you will never forget . 
However , I would say this to the Austrian Presidency : you can make this happen . 
It has been shelved so many times , but racist attacks can be solved , penalties can be increased , a political signal can be sent . 
Will it stop the hatred ? 
But you mentioned leadership , and leadership is what we seek today , because this scar on Europe today in 2006 is greater than when my parents arrived in this European Union in the 1960s . 
That is a deep shame . 
Let us do something about it . 
The Irish peace process is at a critical juncture . 
The Irish and British Governments have set 24 November 2006 as the date for agreement to be reached among the political parties . 
However , Ian Paisley 's Democratic Unionist Party has shown no interest in power-sharing or in progress and it has been allowed by the two governments to prevent progress being made . 
The Irish and British Governments must act to bring about the full implementation of the Good Friday Agreement of 1998 , which is an international treaty . 
I urge the Finnish Presidency to encourage everyone concerned to make progress and would ask Parliament and the President to join in this call . 
Without such progress , the peace process is in danger of unravelling further . 
I welcome the Fava report and the Olbrycht report and thank all the rapporteurs . 
I particularly welcome the efforts to strengthen the social and environmental aspects of the regulations . 
In dealing with these funds , we have generally fought hard to ensure that the role of NGOs is strengthened and that greater account is taken of the environment and to stress the importance of access for those with disabilities . 
In welcoming the report by Mr Olbrycht on cross-border grouping of territorial cooperation , I want to stress that this will be of tremendous benefit to border regions and to divided countries such as my own . 
Structural funding should be Community-based and Community-driven , with all sections of the Community fully involved in the process . 
In my own constituency , we can learn a lot from how other countries empower local communities and local democratic structures . 
I look forward to monitoring the progress of the new cross-border groupings . 
In Ireland , they will be particularly important in border counties and in the north-west region , which have experienced deprivation , under-investment and unemployment . 
I abstained on some paragraphs in this report which were contradictory or whose implications have not been fully worked out . 
This is quite an exciting question for some of us . 
This is not really an issue of dealing with monopolies , because we support the Commission on this prime objective . 
I put it to the Commissioner that we might have something of a law of unintended consequences here . 
You have tried to do the right thing in dealing with a monopoly , BSkyB , but in fact , with Setanta , you have created a situation in which my constituents will have to pay two subscriptions to watch the same amount of football . 
Is that something that the Commission could investigate ? 
Mr President , as the final speaker from the Socialist Group , I would like to commend not only my previous colleagues and the rapporteur , but also the balanced approach we heard from Mr Coelho and the interesting comments by the Commissioner on greater transparency and reform of the intelligence services . 
It is for all those reasons that we must extend this report . 
People opposite have talked about circumstantial evidence . 
They must understand that we called on the testimony of 70 people and spent over 50 hours in this committee , not because we are anti-American -- and I commend our rapporteur for never , ever , falling into that trap -- but because we wanted to get to the truth . 
The previous speaker spoke about 7/7 and London . 
There are one or two Members in this Chamber who represent the area affected by that bombing . 
The people who have written to us are not anti-American ; they want anti-terrorism to be strengthened because human rights are being strengthened . 
That is the approach of my Socialist colleagues and of many Members across this House . 
Why should we continue ? 
We should continue because of the testimony of people like Maher Arar , whom I listened to and believed . 
Do I know that he is telling the final truth ? 
No , I do not , because we are waiting for the Member States and for those who have not spoken to finally speak . 
That is why we need to extend this report and to extend the time we have . 
Why else do we need to extend the time ? 
We are telling European citizens that we will talk about the minute legislative detail , but are we also telling them that , when they are concerned about transparency and human rights and allegations they know very little about , we as a Parliament can not deal with that ? 
We have to tell them we can deal with the issue credibly . 
We see it happening in the Council of Europe , and they should also see it happening in their Parliament . 
On our side of the House , we want to see the report extended , because we believe we have the right approach . 
The interim report is important for two reasons . 
Firstly , unlike members of the Council of Europe , MEPs are directly elected and answerable to our constituents . 
We investigate all manner of issues on behalf of them and we can not ignore calls that Member States may have breached their Treaty obligations under Article 6 of the EU Treaty , which outlines the basic principles of democracy , human rights and respect of law . 
The European Parliament is the only body that can impose sanctions on Member States that breach these Treaty obligations . 
Parliament 's report is also important as , unlike the Council of Europe , the committee was able to call witnesses to testify before it . 
The committee heard strong personal testimonies , which provided compelling evidence in the report . 
However , we are against the idea of integrating the migration issue into EU external policies , as stated in paragraph six . 
We do not believe that a common strategy is the best way to deal with the issue . 
We believe that policy in this area must remain within the competence of national governments and do not believe in a pan-European approach to immigration policy . 
Labour MEPs analyse each legislative proposal on a case-by-case basis in relation to their impact on UK business and the workforce . 
Nothing in our voting for the De Rossa report runs counter to this approach . 
Specifically , Labour MEPs believe firmly that taxation policy is a matter for individual Member States and we have voted accordingly in the De Rossa and Silva Peneda report . 
Thank you , President-in-Office , for that very full answer and for your honesty , particularly on the question of temporary agency workers . 
You will be aware of our frustration in this House , particularly with regard to the Working Time Directive , and are right to say that this has been discussed in previous Presidencies . 
However , I would like to ask you a very frank question : what is different about the Finnish Presidency , and can you get the Members of the Council together and broker a deal in the interests of working people ? 
Can you give a commitment today that every effort will be made to take the Working Time Directive forward and to put the Temporary Agency Workers Directive on the agenda ? 
This marks yet another outbreak of violence between government forces and the rebel movement but , as we know , violence is not the way to resolve complex and sensitive conflicts . 
Let us not forget that many people have lost their lives , including 17 EU nationals working as aid monitors . 
I would like to thank the Commissioner for coming so frequently to Parliament to discuss her proposals with us . 
I would like in particular to thank Mrs Krehl for her work to bring some improvements to the Commission 's original proposal , particularly in regard to partnership , the role of cities and their hinterlands , civil society , access for the disabled and the environment . 
I must , however , reiterate concerns that I have raised repeatedly about earmarking , which remains central to the Commission 's guidelines . 
It has been and will continue to be used at Member State level to downgrade much of what Parliament has sought to do and what people have spoken about here this evening . 
It champions Lisbon over Gothenburg and some elements of Lisbon over others . 
I hope to speak to the Commissioner further about this . 
We need to remember the original reasons for these funds and programmes and to look at them again in the mid-term review . 
As Mr Beaupuy reminded us , we in Ireland , north and south , experienced great benefits and great strides with the help of those funds . 
We have to remember our solidarity and allow other areas to do the same in the future . 
However , as this paragraph is merely a ` recollection ' of a previously held position we are able to support the report . 
rapporteur . - Mr President , according to our rules , after a rejection of a legislative proposal , it should be referred back to committee . 
The aim of such a referral is to try and find an acceptable solution for Parliament . 
Unfortunately , in this specific case , a referral may be meaningless as the Council will not be able to change its position . 
At the same time , it is not the intention of the Committee on Civil Liberties , Justice and Home Affairs to impede the Council in taking its decision - as the committee can do according to the legal base in the Treaty . 
What we intend to do is to send our political message to the Council that Europol should be strengthened and founded on a sound legal base according to the EU Treaties in the same way that Eurojust is constituted . 
Given that this message is clearly stated in the legislative resolutions , may I propose that you put them directly to the vote with my recommendation to vote in favour . 
rapporteur . - Mr President , the same statement as before . 
So I recommend voting for the legislative resolution . 
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry , Research and Energy . - Mr President , I should like to make three points . 
Firstly , I should like to thank the rapporteur for increasing payment appropriations for priority programmes linked to the Lisbon Agenda , like the Competitiveness and Innovation Programme and the Seventh Framework Programme for Research . 
These are key initiatives that not only provide work for Europe 's valuable and highly skilled scientists but also prepare the EU to face future challenges as a global leader . 
We should not overlook the significant and positive impact that they have on our regions and their populations . 
Secondly , I commend this report for the concern it expresses for the Galileo Programme , which has been under-funded in the 2007 draft general budget . 
This showcase EU programme is a major technological , economic and political challenge and we really need to be sure about it . 
I do not understand why we are prepared to cut funding in this area . 
It would be an embarrassment for the EU if this project were to stall or fail due to lack of financial backing . 
Thirdly , since many areas , such as the ones I have just mentioned , require increased funding , I do not understand why , when the ITRE Committee 's request is for a smaller budget , this does not come from the Security and Space Research programme , where we should reduce payments and not increase them . 
Turning to more general non-ITRE issues , on the structural funds I support the call in this report for an increase in payments . 
This is the one area where ordinary citizens see the difference EU policies make to their everyday lives . 
So I am amazed that the Commission has cut funding . 
Last year money for the tsunami disaster was taken from other Asian programmes without any increase and this year , because the tsunami funding has decreased , the Commission has cut the funding again . 
Has the Commission forgotten that the money is desperately needed by the Asian programmes which were sacrificed , where the EU is committed to meeting Millennium Development Goals ? 
I ask the Commission to justify this . 
I welcome this report 's call for transparency in the allocation of funding for information and communication . 
We need full transparency across the board , so EU taxpayers ' money spent on EU policies should be totally traceable and published on the Internet . 
Then we can see exactly how much money goes to whom . 
This applies equally to the Members of this House and especially to agriculture . 
All political forces that believe this to be an important political objective , including the European Union , should do all in their power to ensure that this opportunity is grasped . 
It is unfortunate that both resolutions presented to Parliament today do not address the central issues nor where the peace process is today . 
The EPP-ED resolution was opposed to the peace process . 
The joint resolution , while better than that of the EPP-ED , was clearly a missed opportunity . 
On that basis we voted against the EPP-ED resolution and abstained on the joint resolution . 
There is an urgent need for all-party talks , a need to respect all political mandates , including that of Batasuna , and a need to end the ongoing political show trials against Basque left nationalist political activists . 
Sinn Féin remains committed to supporting the Basque peace process , will continue to meet all political parties in the region and will offer whatever assistance those parties deem appropriate . 
However , the EPLP recognises that Member States have different enforcement mechanisms and there may be differences in , for example , information requirements between Member States . 
Any requirements must be proportionate and justified . 
It is important that this legislation does not add unnecessary burdens to business and interfere with the right of foreign services providers to post workers . 
I voted in favour of the report by Ingo Friedrich today as it contains positive elements such as the monitoring and reporting procedure to review every six months what has been done to ensure that the multilingual way of working in the European Parliament extends to the full range of official and working languages . 
However , I view with regret the delays and restrictions on what will be possible in Irish in the time ahead . 
This disappointment stems not from the role of Mr Friedrich but from the fact that the necessary preparatory work was not done by the Irish Government or the EU institutions . 
I will continue to press for the restrictions on what can be done through the medium of Irish to be lifted . 
Sinn Féin supports the upwards harmonisation of human rights standards in Europe and accordingly supports the principle of creating an Agency for Fundamental Rights . 
For this reason we supported the report of Ms Gal and Ms. Kósáné Kovács . 
We do have concerns however about the possible duplication of roles given the established role of the Council of Europe in these matters . 
The shift of power from the Council of Europe to EU level is also something we are not entirely comfortable with . 
As the Agency is to be built upon the existing European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia , the work of the Agency should continue to cover the phenomena of racism . 
An EU Agency for Fundamental Rights should tackle discrimination on a systematic basis rather than on a case-by-case basis as is the case with the Council of Europe . 
author . - Mr President , yet again we are confronted with a coup d'état in Fiji . 
Fiji has now suffered four coups d'état in the last ten years and the latest one is based on the most unbelievable logic of Commander Bainimarama , who says that he took action to have a coup because the democratically elected government of Fiji was going to pardon the previous coup leaders . 
The logic of this beggars belief but , whatever internal differences there may be between the Fijian leaders , it should not damage the fragile democracy of this Pacific island state . 
The European Union , together with Australia and New Zealand , spent a considerable amount of money and resources to ensure that a fair and free election took place in Fiji in May 2006 . 
The Government of the Prime Minister came in with a considerable majority . 
It is a unique constitution , under which the ethnic element - ethnic Indians and indigenous Fijians - shares power . 
All that has been put at risk by the commander of the army taking the law into his own hands . 
No commander of any army has the right to take any law into his own hands and subvert the course of democracy . 
Therefore , I ask Parliament and my colleagues to send a strong signal that we will stop non-humanitarian aid . 
We will tell the European population who want to go on holiday in a country like Fiji that they should not until democracy is restored . 
We must send a signal to the Fijians that we are in complete solidarity with them on this very important issue of freedom , democracy and justice . 
rapporteur . - Mr President , it is so hugely flattering to speak to an almost empty Chamber ! 
The Cook Islands , the Fiji Islands , Kiribati , the Marshall Islands , the Federated States of Micronesia , Nauru , Niue , Palau , Papua New Guinea , Samoa , the Solomon Islands , Timor-Leste , Tonga , Tuvalu , Vanuatu - exotic places , fantastic places , so distant , so far away , so romantic and so on , but actually they are in need . 
All these countries are part of the Pacific Islands . 
Historically , Europe has had the strongest influence in the Pacific region through colonial rule . 
The end of the Second World War hastened the end of European colonialism , but the relationship continued . 
Through the Lomé Convention and the Cotonou Agreement , the Pacific region is now linked to us and our daily lives through the ACP . 
Even if the population of the Pacific Islands is small , we have to bear in mind that the Pacific Ocean itself covers nearly 30 % of the planet 's surface . 
Their location , while bringing huge benefits to the region through fisheries and tourism , means they find themselves isolated through a tyranny of distance . 
However , advances in technology , air travel and infrastructure have helped to alleviate their economic circumstances . 
Another thing they should consider - and I am very pleased to see the Commission in full strength here - is that the English-speaking digital economy may provide another way forward for them to provide business process outsourcing and knowledge process outsourcing services to the United States and Australasia . 
Therefore , the strategy for the region must have a certain flexibility in order to ensure that the development assistance is channelled according to national and regional parities and to achieve maximum benefit in both the richer and poorer islands . 
For many Pacific islanders , agricultural products are their primary exports to international markets , supplying commodities such as sugar , copra , bananas , coconuts and palm oil . 
However , they face challenges such as global warming , which is a huge challenge for them . 
We have also given them another interesting problem : economic partnership agreements - EPAs - which they have to contend with . 
They tell me that they are losing revenue through their intra-regional customs union . 
What are they to do ? 
Do we help them , support them ? 
Do we create infrastructure so that they can come out of this problem ? 
We need to think about this . 
One of the major challenges faced by the region is the sustainable management of fisheries . 
Tuna is especially abundant in the Pacific , with a third of the world 's catch caught in the Pacific Islands , valued at EUR 2 billion . 
Are we protecting their catch ? 
Are we making sure that the benefits of their catches go back to their people ? 
Maybe the Commission should look at this . 
My report stresses that any encouragement of tourism in the region must go hand-in-hand with increased local ownership of the tourist sector . 
I stress that in the majority of cases only the richer countries , with more developed infrastructure and more frequent air connections , attract significant numbers of tourists each year . 
In these cases , for the poorer countries , development assistance must continue to be used to finance infrastructure and to encourage sustainable tourism . 
In this regard , why have we not looked at creating a Pacific hub , a regional hub ? 
We could create a hub , like Dubai . 
After all , what was Dubai ? 
Many of the islands are politically fragile , as we have seen through the many military coups in Fiji . 
I am sick of hearing about military coups in Fiji , but they need to be able to feel that they are going to have a future as two communities together , and we need to help them with that . 
They must stop or we should stop the aid . 
That is a threat , but we need to have some sort of quid pro quo on this issue . 
Provision of good governance throughout the Pacific is vital , and to achieve the Millennium Development Goals we must also achieve a certain measure of mutuality . 
In Papua New Guinea , for example , and the Solomon Islands , they have problems with regard to AIDS . 
The EU , as a major donor to the region , has an opportunity to create a strategy that will support the island countries of the Pacific in achieving the Millennium Development Goals and bringing their people to realise their full potential . 
Our report is just the start . 
We investigate all manner of issues on behalf of them and we could not ignore calls that Member States may have breached their treaty obligations under Article 6 of the EU Treaty which outlines the basic principles of democracy , human rights , and respect of law . 
The EPLP voted for amendments which moved the focus of the report away from personalities and party politics to the substance of the rendition allegations . 
The EPLP have voted for a more balanced and fair report in Plenary than the report which emerged from Committee stage . 
MEPs are directly elected and answerable to our constituents . 
We investigate all manner of issues on behalf of them and we could not ignore calls that Member States may have breached their treaty obligations under Article 6 of the EU Treaty , which outlines the basic principles of democracy , human rights , and respect for the law . 
The EPLP have voted for a more balanced and fair report in Plenary than the report which emerged from the committee stage . 
I agree with everything she has said and the reason for that is that the speakers here present feel united in asking the Commission exactly what free movement of the Roma within the EU borders actually means . 
Our understanding is that such now is the level of discrimination - not only actual discrimination against the homogenous Roma population but also infringements on their ability to move , i.e. infringements on the ability of long-term-resident Roma in particular countries to move freely in reality . 
This can be because of actual restrictions , for example through visas and actual practical restrictions , and it can also mean , as Mrs Járóka was implying , restrictions through discrimination : when Roma move traditionally through countries and from one country to another they face discrimination . 
What I would like to hear from the Commission in its statement is exactly what is its understanding of these infringements and restrictions . 
What study has it undertaken of what these infringements are and what does it think it can do to ease these restrictions for the Roma community ? 
In addition , what is the Commission saying about the Year of Equal Opportunities 2007 ? 
I have heard very little about the issue of the Roma within this context . 
I know it is slightly unfair to ask you that , Mr Almunia . 
It is not your area of expertise , so please do not think that I am getting at you . 
However , please tell the Commissioners that we have not heard specifics . 
Please take that message back . 
What are you going to do this year ? 
What is the High Level Experts Group doing in terms of free movement ? 
What is in its pending tray on the Roma issue , i.e. actual discrimination issues , harassment issues ? 
How is money being spent ? 
Is it going to relieve poverty ? 
Is it going to educational programmes ? 
Those are all things that Mrs Járóka , Mrs Mohácsi and others have been struggling and fighting for for some time . 
The PSE Group fully supports their approach in asking the Commission for answers , and I think this evening is a good time to get those answers . 
If you can not give them , Mr Almunia , please transmit this urgent message to your Commissioner colleagues , because it is about time we got some specific answers to these questions . 
The initiative will help an enormous number of consumers who are affected by the roaming charges that are unjustifiably high . 
The regulation will ensure that prices paid for international roaming when travelling within the European Union will not be unjustifiably higher than the charges for calls paid within the user 's country . 
I voted for the report on the fight against organised crime presented by Bill Newton Dunn ( ALDE , GB ) because it will ensure that Europol 's role as a criminal intelligence body is strengthened , allowing it to fulfil its task of providing Member States with information and intelligence leading to more effective results in preventing and combating organised crime . 
The EU has always played an important role in the fight against organised crime and it is now necessary to provide the Union with a more powerful and ambitious instrument to work more closely with Member States to improve cooperation in order to combat organised crime more effectively . 
Hugo Chávez 's Venezuela has something of the feel of Eastern Europe in the late 1940s . 
There are still elections , there are still opposition parties , there are still free newspapers , but the direction is unmistakable . 
Venezuela is not Cuba , at least not yet , but the complacency exhibited by some in this House is at best naive , and at worst shameful . 
We are witnessing the slow asphyxiation of a once open and liberal polity . 
If we do nothing else , for heaven 's sake , let us at least register our disapprobation ! 
on behalf of the PSE Group . - Mr President , I would like to welcome this report because over recent months we have clearly seen a fall in the overall number of asylum-seekers coming to the European Union from the key asylum-producing countries . 
But that number is of course now increasing , partly as a result of Iraq , and the number of people coming to the European Union because of extreme poverty - the people that we see coming to Malta , Lampedusa and so on - is a huge issue for this House and for the European Union . 
Because of this , any report which moves towards a better procedure and a better common policy on asylum is welcome . 
The compromises which we have had in this report are very welcome and the cooperation from the rapporteur , Mr Pirker , is very welcome also . 
What are we trying to achieve in this report ? 
In referring directly to what Mr Pirker has listed , and to Mr Frattini 's speech , we believe that the single procedure is extremely important . 
Decision-making with one operation for the assessment of applications granting refugee status and granting access to subsidiary protection is extremely important . 
This kind of efficiency in asylum decision-making is vital . 
We also believe that the quality of asylum decision-making is extremely poor across the European Union . 
To increase the quality of asylum decisions - and I speak from my own experience as a lawyer having dealt with asylum applications - is vital . 
We know that , in creating this quality of asylum decision-making , we need open systems with information that can be genuinely assessed : sophisticated information , information which can be cross-referenced . 
What we probably do not want to see are databases which are , perhaps , for officials only , but ones that can be examined by outside experts . 
Many Member States currently have this quality of decision-making , and it is extremely important . 
In terms of the role of the Commission , we also want to see the door kept open to a European agency , because we want to see the Commission 's role being full and resourced . 
We can not have it both ways ; we can not have a role for the Commission in the issue of asylum for the European Union and , on the other hand , not pay for it and resource it . 
Finally , there will be differences between our parties on the common safe list , but the compromises we have sought to create , I think , are worthy of support in this House . 
On Dublin II , we know that there are imperfections in burden sharing , one of the most vital issues in this report , and on the issue of asylum in the European Union . 
We need to strive towards making Dublin II and burden sharing a reality . 
If this report can move us towards a better common asylum system , then it is worthy of support in this House , and we in the Socialist Group will be supporting this report fully . 
in writing . - I am deeply concerned that Pakistan 's fragile democracy is in peril . 
The dismissal of the Chief Justice of Pakistan and resulting media clampdown does not bode well for having free and fair elections . 
There are many reports of official and unofficial acts of intimidation against members of the legal community and abuse of the Anti-Terrorist Act to persecute political opponents . 
I have been informed by Pakistanis that moderate political parties , journalists and civil society are being marginalised , whilst the extremist groups are being empowered to have a greater influence over its society . 
I very much regret that recent unrest has seen the loss of civilian lives and would urge President Musharraf to ensure that the Pakistani authorities fully respect human rights . 
Furthermore , I would request the President to abide by the assurances that he gave to the EP Delegation during the December 2006 visit to Pakistan , about the transition to civilian rule and to agreement on building up democratic institutions and most importantly the assurances he gave us on media freedom . 
I would like to call on the Council and the Commission to make a strong representation to Pakistan on restoration of democracy and respect of human rights . 
They caused widespread damage across the country including in my region , the West Midlands . 
In Worcestershire over 5 000 homes and business were affected and more than 2 000 people were temporarily displaced . 
The impact on infrastructure has been significant , with many roads waterlogged for weeks afterwards and some that have totally disappeared . 
Agriculture was also severely affected and the impact of this is not confined to the loss of produce but also loss of crops , grazing land and next year 's yield . 
Therefore I would urge the Commission to ensure that the UK 's application for funding assistance from the Solidarity Fund is also brought forward to help alleviate some of the immediate consequences of the floods . 
It is imperative that the systems enabling access to funds are streamlined and that any proposed EU rapid reaction body to assist Member States also covers extreme flooding . 
in writing . - We must demonstrate to the European taxpayer that the EU 's budget is value for money and represents sound financial management . 
Therefore , the EP 's continued monthly commute to Strasbourg totally contradicts this , especially with our focus on climate change . 
Whilst I welcome the comments in the Itälä report on greener use of transport , these hardly tackle the scale of the problem . 
We urgently need to act as pioneers and set a real example . 
On the Virrankoski report , I am disappointed by the level of funding for poverty reduction programmes to the poorest regions , including Asia . 
If the EU is to have credibility as a global power it needs to put its money where its mouth is . 
Whilst I welcome the support for Palestine and Afghanistan , in the case of the latter , the EU strategy needs greater collaboration with neighbouring countries India and Pakistan to achieve long-term success . 
Furthermore I regret the proposed reduction to CFSP funding , especially in Kosovo . 
This should not be delayed or underfunded . 
Finally , I support the emphasis on the Lisbon Agenda creating jobs and increasing skills . 
These initiatives will really bring added value from the EU to the people I represent in the West Midlands . 
in writing . - Could the Commission clarify to Parliament what progress it has made on the 2005 plan to combat and prevent trafficking of humans in Europe ? 
Concerned by the delay of implementation of this plan by Member States , I ask that the Commission state the impact this could have on the campaign ` Red Card to forced prostitution ' in Member States . 
Could it also inform us what campaign it is putting in place to raise awareness of trafficking for prostitution during the UEFA 2008 games ? 
I am deeply concerned that , whilst sporting events bring joy to millions worldwide , they are also ruthlessly being used as an opportunity to exploit women and girls . 
I am shocked that around 100 000 women are trafficked in Europe annually for prostitution . 
What I condemn the most is that girls as young as 14 are affected . 
We simply can not let this form of modern day slavery continue . 
Not only is sexual exploitation a crime , it is also a gross violation of human rights . 
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group . - Mr President , I welcome very warmly the statement made by Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner just now , and I ask my political group to withdraw its amendment so that this report can go through . 
If not , I am in a rather difficult position , but I will have to support the Socialist rapporteur on this issue . 
I have to say that I believe the development instrument is for development purposes . 
But if one looks at what the development instrument - particularly Article 179 - gives , even with all the constraints , the ODA instrument allows the promotion of museums , libraries , the arts , music in schools , sports training facilities and venues - all these count as ODA . 
But , of course , sponsoring concert tours or athletes ' travel costs does not . 
Cultural programmes in developing countries , whose main purpose is to promote the cultural values of the donor , are not reportable as ODA . 
So here we are asking ourselves , in this Parliament , how many angels are dancing on the head of a pin when , in fact , the main area of the work is covered by the ODA instrument . 
So , I welcome Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner 's statement that Article 181a is there to make it possible to look for the funds to do what some of my colleagues are hoping to do . 
in writing . - I congratulate the rapporteur on this report . 
I believe the Internet has enhanced Europeans ' lives in countless ways . 
It has increased our ability to access knowledge , aided our understanding of the world around us and reinforced our social connections to other people . 
But constituents tell me they are also concerned about the dangers of the Internet . 
We have remarkable technology at our fingertips , but the very freedom it gives us has also left criminals free to abuse the technology . 
This report , in its focus on fundamental rights , will go a long way to making the Internet safer . 
We spoke during the last part-session on the need to tackle child pornography . 
Through balancing liberty and security , the proposals we have voted on today will form a further vital tool in the fight against that threat . 
The report also raises concerns about e-literacy . 
We can not move forward as a society together if , by promoting new freedoms for some , we restrict the rights of those who are less familiar with the Internet . 
rapporteur . - Mr President , behind the Commission consultative paper on debtors ' assets is the concern that late payment and non-payment of debts jeopardise the interests of businesses and consumers . 
This is particularly the case when the creditor and the enforcement authorities have no information about the debtor 's whereabouts or his or her assets . 
The problem can be resolved where the debtor has assets in the EU and it is possible to trace them and bring legal proceedings . 
The Commission , in its report , suggested drawing up a manual of national enforcement laws and practices and highlighted the possibility of increasing access to population registers . 
It also raised questions on whether enforcement authorities should be given better access to social security and tax registers . 
The proposal suggested that the cooperation between public enforcement bodies might be improved and , lastly , it put forward the idea of a European assets declaration , which would oblige debtors to disclose all their assets in the European judicial area , possibly backed by sanctions . 
My report , as voted by the committee , suggested that creditors would benefit from the introduction of a simpler , more flexible procedure , effective throughout the EU , to obtain an order to disclose information about assets which may then be made the subject of a judgement . 
Such measures could take the form of an interim payment order , giving the creditor immediate payment pending resolution of the underlying dispute . 
The report also calls for a study into how the present national systems work , with a comparison between common-law countries , such as Britain , and other European jurisdictions , and how existing arrangements could be improved . 
It also highlights the need to consider areas in which further cooperation with Member States could have a positive effect and how the proposals will work alongside existing data protection and human rights legislation . 
We have endeavoured to shape the report along these lines and the compromises arrived at by the committee have already ironed out some of the discrepancies between Member States ' legal systems . 
Many of the additions we have made are designed to make the proposal more transparent and easier to use for the creditor . 
It will therefore be imperative to ensure that the proposed manual of national enforcement laws and practices is kept updated and that the information is provided in easy-to-use format and that it should be written in an accessible language . 
It will also be crucial for the initiative to act in tandem with - rather than replacing the work of - national courts . 
This will require the legislation to be restricted only to cross-border cases . 
By bearing this caveat in mind , the enforcement of this legislation will made to work efficiently and proactively . 
Overall the report will do much to help small businesses and enterprising individuals to overcome a significant obstacle to their success because they lack the resources of large enterprises to track down debtors and bring legal action against them . 
Small businesses are affected disproportionately by people defaulting on payments . 
If companies are thereby discouraged from trading abroad , this represents a real threat to the very functioning of the common market . 
It will be vital to protect the activities of small businesses at this difficult time because SMEs make up a large proportion of our economy . 
I would like to thank the Legal Affairs Committee secretariat and to praise the excellent support they have given me on this report . 
Thanks must also go to colleagues from other groups who have made very constructive suggestions . 
What is key , I believe , is for this legislation to be brought forward as soon as possible . 
I call on the Commission to act on Parliament 's recommendations with urgency . 
Much of the good work that the Member States have been doing in responding to the market downturn has to be focused for large-scale enterprises . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , this is my first , or maiden , speech in this Parliament . 
As a UKIP MEP for the East of England , you will expect me to be a rebel and I will try not to disappoint you or my voters . 
We are discussing today EU trade agreements and , in particular , that with South Korea , due to be signed this year . 
As we do not have much of the detail on this particular agreement , other than the fact , I believe , that two thirds of the benefits will accrue to South Korea and one third to the EU , I would like to make some more general points . 
In Europe , there are trade agreements with Russia , Ukraine , Turkey and Liechtenstein . 
There are also trade agreements with non-EU EEA and EFTA countries such as Switzerland and Norway . 
There is cooperation on airlines , asylum and judicial matters . 
In short , they have all the claimed benefits of EU membership , but without the cost . 
It is true that Switzerland must pay CHF 600 million per year for access , but the Swiss Government reports savings for not being a member of the EU amounting to CHF 3.4 billion , a net saving of CHF 2.8 billion a year . 
Nor is Switzerland an insignificant trading partner either : 80 % of Swiss exports go to the EU , and it is the EU 's fourth largest trading partner . 
My point is that trade agreements can achieve the benefits of EU trade without the burden of high regulatory costs , loss of sovereignty and of resources . 
How Britain would love to deviate in a similar way over the Working Time Directive , Temporary Workers ' Directive or the new Fund Managers ' Directive ! 
So I conclude in asking , why not Britain ? 
Why can not Britain have a similar , friendly trade agreement with the EU like South Korea instead of full EU membership ? 
Britain on its own is the largest single trading partner with the EU with a GBP 40 billion deficit a year . 
We , too , can have the kind of assurances the Swiss enjoy . 
We could , and I believe we should , be an independent free trading nation once again such as Norway , Switzerland and even South Korea . 
on behalf of the S&D Group . - Mr President , SWIFT has clearly become a testing ground for getting the balance right between our cooperation with the United States , fighting terrorism and protecting our fundamental rights . 
When , in our resolutions of 2006 and 2007 , Parliament asked for the mirroring site of SWIFT to be moved from US to EU soil , it was obviously because we thought that the protection offered by the US framework to EU citizens was not in line with EU standards and would have to be improved . 
So it is a positive development , and our group welcomes the fact that SWIFT 's two new servers will now be moved to Europe and that a new legal framework will be set up in order for the US TFTP to continue using and processing data in cooperation with our law enforcement authorities . 
My group can also see that the recommendation adopted by the Council tries to address some of Parliament 's and the European Data Protection Supervisor 's concerns . 
To which judge can an EU citizen or an EU enterprise go in the case of criminal prosecution ? 
The Socialist and Democrat Group is clear that this interim agreement should apply only for 12 months and that a new agreement should be negotiated with Parliament as co-legislator so that we in this House can ensure that delicate balance of protecting the fundamental rights of European citizens in the important and critical fight against terrorism . 
on behalf of the S&D Group . - Madam President , I should like to thank the Commissioner for coming here today to update us on these issues in some detail . 
We appreciate the manner in which he has done that . 
Like Mr Busuttil , I want to set out an explanation - which is a joint explanation - of our serious concern regarding the significant delays in migration from SIS to SIS II and the development of VIS . 
I think you will understand why we tabled a joint resolution , because there is a genuine concern here . 
Mr Coelho and others have been making this concern known for some time and it is worth putting on record that , while these significant delays are obviously highly worrying on their own , the key issues here for Parliament , as you know , are those of transparency and accountability , particularly when we are dealing with sensitive data , and sensitive data in this area . 
As co-legislator and the EU 's only directly elected institution , Parliament needs to be kept informed about the developments of these systems , as it has requested many times in the past . 
In our resolution , we do not want to be seen to be making unreasonable demands . 
We want to be reasonable , and we want to respond to the way in which you have given us the information today . 
We simply want to be informed of the current state of play , to be given explanations about the reasons for the delay , and to be reassured that these problems will be resolved . 
It is vital that a project as important as this , which will have an impact on vast numbers of people - both EU and non-EU citizens - is developed transparently . 
However , in addition to the issues of transparency and accountability , it is also important to point out some of the wider implications . 
The technical problems we are seeing , and the development of these large-scale databases , do not inspire wider confidence . 
Therefore , we certainly have to look jointly across the political parties to see how these problems arose , how they can be prevented in the future , at the planning stage rather than the development stage . 
Lessons have to be learned ; we have to have confidence in these systems and , above all , we have to have full and effective oversight . 
In the end , these systems will only work through technical cooperation - but also through that public confidence in this system and the fact that Parliament is seen to be scrutinising these matters openly and with some results at the end of the day . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Madam President , it is unbelievable that in these times of financial and economic crisis , the European Commission proposes an increase of almost 5 % for the 2010 budget . 
But what is worse is that , while the Council , at its first reading in July , put forward a reduction of almost 2 % on the preliminary draft budget , this Parliament is now proposing an increase of 5 % on it . 
The 2010 budget would then end up being over EUR 127 billion in payment appropriations which equates to 1.08 % of the EU 's gross national income . 
Is this the way this Parliament wants to bring the budget closer to the citizens ? 
It is all very nice to want to subsidise the Special Olympics in Poland and Greece and the European Youth Olympic Winter Festival in the Czech Republic , or even Xacobeo 2010 , but our constituents have other priorities in their lives , such as paying their mortgages and giving a reasonable education to their children . 
The daily cost of the European Union for the United Kingdom currently amounts to GBP 45 million per day and the proposed increase will bring it to GBP 50 million or more with the reduction of the rebate . 
Year after year , the Court of Auditors has been unable to give us satisfaction that the EU budget has been legally and regularly spent , and I was really concerned at the lack of control over taxpayers ' money when I was the chief accountant of the European Commission back in 2002 . 
But still , Parliament wants to put more money into the EU coffers . 
Do not count on me ever to vote in favour of any increase in the budget . 
If you want to subsidise projects to fight the crisis , you should find areas where the budget can be reduced . 
on behalf of the S&D Group . - Madam President , until 2008 and the Slovenian Presidency , not enough progress was made on what the Commissioner rightly called an historic move towards visa liberalisation for the Western Balkans . 
As Mrs Ludford said , very correctly , there are deep practical considerations as to why this is important for us and why this is not just a reactive measure . 
So , on behalf of the Socialist and Democrat Group , I want to thank the rapporteur , Mrs Fajon , for the careful and painstaking work she has undertaken to move the European Union towards this ultimate goal of abolition of the visa regime for all the countries of the Western Balkans . 
This has been done with the shadow rapporteurs and with the Commission and Council , and it should be commended . 
While it is clear that many see visa liberalisation as having great benefits on both sides ; it is also the case that we have to take the whole House with us on the question of the road map and of ensuring that fundamental reforms are carried out in all of these countries in order to gain confidence for a truly decent visa liberalisation regime . 
The task for our rapporteur was to make a breakthrough on visa liberalisation while taking the House with her . 
For all these reasons , my group supports this report and hopes it will gain widespread support in the House . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , following the report by the honourable Member , Mrs Guy-Quint , dated April 2008 , the new legal framework affecting budgetary matters should now be ready for adoption . 
The current number of amending budgets is excessive and does not even comply with the conditions set out in Article 37 of the Financial Regulation . 
The current number of transfers is also excessive and would not occur if the planning of the budget was done with a better understanding of the needs of the different sectors in the different countries . 
As a member of the Committee on Budgets , I am appalled to see almost the whole committee , except for me , approve all of these requests for transfers . 
Therefore , no amending budgets or transfers should be approved during the transitional period and all efforts should be concentrated on the adoption of the legal framework so as to avoid further damage to the interests of taxpayers . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , we are elected Members of the European Parliament , but our voters do not know what is going on behind the scenes . 
In April 2009 , the Budgetary Control Committee decided to postpone discharge to the Council . 
Even if the Court of Auditors had not criticised the accounts , the Committee claimed to have enough reasons to proceed that way . 
However , after this Committee met with the Swedish Presidency in September , and some written answers were given to Parliament 's questions , Mr Søndergaard , the rapporteur on the Council discharge for 2007 , still issued a report which , even with much goodwill , would not have allowed discharge to be given . 
However , a political decision was taken to give discharge and the compromising paragraphs were watered down . 
The Committee intends to recommend discharge on expectations for the future . 
If the people who bothered to vote for us in June knew the following : that there is a consensus not to rock the boat on the basis of a gentleman 's agreement from 1970 ; that the internal auditor of the Council would not be invited to the Budgetary Control Committee because then , the Council would be able to invite the internal auditor of the European Parliament , with uncertain consequences ; and that the politically appointed Court of Auditors did not have any comments on the Council 's internal auditor 's report of April 2008 , what would they say ? 
Back in 2002 , when I was Chief Accountant of the European Commission , the then Director-General for Budgets stated , in a letter to the then internal auditor of the Commission , that the discharge procedure was an interinstitutional game and nothing more . 
Are we going to continue to avoid talking about the gorilla in the middle of the room because we are afraid to lose privileges obtained after years of silence ? 
We can choose to expose and end hypocrisy when we vote for the 2007 Council discharge . 
I think you know what I choose , and I hope that you will join me in refusing discharge to the Council . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , I am sorry to dissent , but as an experienced accountant , I do not share my colleagues ' optimism about the opinion of the auditors . 
The Court of Auditors ' annual report on the 2008 accounts shows no significant improvement . 
10 years after the resignation of the Santer Commission , and many promises of reform , the EU 's funds continue to be out of control . 
The auditors state that the accounts are fair but fail to state that they are true , and indeed it is difficult to say they are true if they go on to express concern about the quality of the financial information . 
For the remaining 48 % , they give a qualified opinion . 
Such a report would call for the resignation of the board of auditors of any company and its subsequent liquidation , but here nobody is worried . 
The auditors even identified an amount of EUR 1.5 billion that , in their own words , should not have been paid . 
The first argument you will hear is that the auditors are not saying that it is fraud , but only errors . 
They will say that fraud requires criminal intent , and we have to prove this , and then we need to call the police . 
The second argument that you will hear is that the rules are too complex . 
It is just taxpayers ' money we are dealing with . 
It is only the money of people who are now struggling to pay their mortgages and educate their children . 
But all this is not enough . 
These additional advance payments have been made precisely in the areas where the Court of Auditors found the biggest number of errors . 
For how long is this Parliament going to allow taxpayers ' money to be abused ? 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , the European Union has set up budgetary instruments to provide support to workers who are being made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns , many of which have been influenced directly or indirectly by the European Union . 
However , this represents a piecemeal approach . 
Subsidising the training of those who have lost their jobs in certain industries will not resolve the situation of the said industries , nor will it help to create an alternative industry that will absorb this workforce . 
This is just a waste of taxpayers ' money . 
If the European Union was really looking to help Europe out of the crisis , it should be investigating and working on the causes of the crisis , but it prefers to be seen as the charity that will come to rescue the poor . 
Of course , this action will initially return support for the European Union from those affected . 
What is most worrying is that the report emphasises the need to speed up the payments of the subsidies , without ever mentioning the need to provide evidence that the funds are reaching the right people for the right purpose . 
Worse still , the report does not call for regular monitoring of the effects of the subsidy , leaving this evaluation to the general assessment of the programmes within the process of the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework . 
Colleagues , we are talking about taxpayers ' money , many of whom have also lost their jobs and are getting no subsidies , many of whom are going through severe financial problems . 
How can we treat their money with such contempt ? 
I will reject this resolution , and urge you to do the same . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , the proposal for the second reading of the 2010 budget still represents a 6 % increase in respect of 2009 . 
That proposal appears to come from another planet - a planet where there is no financial crisis . 
Following the conciliation meeting in November , Parliament still deplores the Council 's refusal to increase the financing of programmes under the grand heading of ` Competitiveness for Growth and Employment ' . 
The Council must know all too well how such funds are used . 
Parliament also criticises the Council over the reduction in payments , alleging that this does not contribute to reducing the disparity between commitments and payments . 
The Council must know all too well that this disparity is due to the lack of intelligence and of consultation that characterises the budgeting process . 
The Court of Auditors recently brought to our attention that the amount of unpaid commitments presently stands at EUR 155 billion - or 126 % of the current annual budget . 
Does this say something to you ? 
Parliament welcomes the increase in administrative expenditure - an increase which also includes Members ' salaries . 
It is obscene for us to vote for an increase in our own salaries , all of which are to be paid by taxpayers who are losing their jobs and social securities owing to the reduction in national budgets . 
In the current circumstances , we should renounce any increases . 
The European Parliament rejects the budgetary cuts introduced by the Council in the structural and cohesion funds . 
Colleagues , are you aware that these are the areas where the Court of Auditors has found the highest levels of errors ? 
Does the European Parliament think we should be injecting more money into programmes where we are certain abuses are taking place ? 
In addition , the public should know that this budget does not cover the costs of implementing the Lisbon Treaty , which will be added through amending budgets - i.e. through the back door . 
One might ask how much this will amount to . 
` Who cares ? ' comes the answer , ` It is taxpayers ' money ' . 
As I advised back in October , British citizens will see their contribution to the European Union raised from GBP 45 million a day to GBP 50 million a day , while the British Government will be reducing public services so as to allow a cut of GBP 12 billion in the national budget . 
That is almost the same amount that the United Kingdom contributes to the European Union . 
There is no question that this budget is a burden and not a way out of the crisis . 
Colleagues , listen to your conscience and vote against this budget . 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Mr President , our hearts and minds go out to the people of Haiti in their hour of suffering . 
I was present at the tsunami which hit Sri Lanka and then later Indonesia . 
What about an aircraft carrier ? 
It has electricity , it has nuclear power , it has generators for water purification and it has helicopters . 
Could we set up a global rescue operation , ready to go at a moment 's notice , that can provide makeshift harbours , temporary shelters and all the infrastructure that gets destroyed ? 
We need to think afresh as to how to save lives immediately afterwards . 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Mr President , we go on and on and on . 
We keep talking about alleviating poverty . 
This is the 10th EDF . 
We have pumped about EUR 350 billion into so-called alleviating poverty when we know that poverty has increased . 
Why is it that we have policies and programmes in our ACP countries that we never had in our own European history ? 
The provinces of Brussels or Brabant did not get richer and eliminate poverty by creating what we are trying to do in the ACP countries . 
We created wealth in Europe by creating wealth . 
How do we create wealth in the ACP countries ? 
Mrs Joly has very interestingly identified that there is a flight of capital . 
She says that eight times what we put into those countries goes out . 
Why is that capital not employed in those countries ? 
Why are we not creating the conditions for that capital to stay at home to create jobs and make wealth ? 
Until we answer these questions , we are wasting our taxpayers ' money without actually eliminating one person from being poor . 
on behalf of the S&D Group . - Mr President , the achievement of Mrs Hedh and Mrs Bauer today , although speaking at a very late hour , as Mrs Hedh said , is to come here tonight and hear the outgoing Commissioner , Mr Barrot , and the new Spanish Presidency use words like ` determined ' and ` ambitious ' for the Commissioner . 
It is worth waiting until this late hour to hear it , because there are many people in this Chamber today , including the authors , who understand the complexity of this brutal modern day phenomenon , but also understand that the EU is expected by its citizens to tackle this modern day scourge . 
Mr Barrot talked about the need for new legislation . 
We hope we will see the Commission proposal very soon . 
This morning , at the hearing of Commissioner-designate Mrs Malmström , we also saw a positive response to our proposal for an EU anti-trafficking coordinator . 
If you start to put together the various pieces of this puzzle , at least we are moving forward , but the sheer scale of the problem described by Anna Hedh means that we really have to turn words into action . 
With trafficking being such a complex phenomenon , touching on so many different areas such as forced labour , organised crime , sexual exploitation and child abuse , our response must be multi-pronged and holistic . 
Mr Barrot listed many of the things that we would like to see as a reality and , if they come together in a package across the EU , we will have a determined policy which EU citizens will see as a plan of action . 
At the moment , EU citizens understand the scourge of trafficking but they do not see the holistic approach and they do not understand what the EU is doing as a whole . 
I am happy that Commissioner-designate Malmström underlined her commitment today to come forward with a new legislative proposal very soon , and I am also happy to see the Spanish Presidency underlining not just the fight against trafficking but related issues such as violence against women . 
It is important that these all come together to show real determination and heart in this proposal . 
Although the hour is late , we now need the words to be turned into action and the authors have done a good job for us today . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , thank you . 
Mr Rodríguez Zapatero , I have listened with attention to your proposals for the Spanish Presidency , and I can only wish you luck . 
I will now refer to a reality . 
I represent the south-east of England , and many of my constituents - together with other European citizens - have been suffering urbanisation abuses on the Mediterranean coast and in other parts of Spain for a long time now . 
Three reports have been adopted by this Parliament urging the Spanish authorities to take action but , other than the conviction of a few politicians and the passing of a new Land Law , no specific action has been taken to defend the people who are suffering prejudice . 
The problems my constituents face range from the dramatic situation of Len and Helen Prior of Berkshire , who saw their house being demolished because the authorities said it was built in breach of coastal law , to cases like that of Doreen Snook , also from Berkshire , in Alicante , and Mr Lohmann in Lanzarote , who can not actually live in the houses they have purchased because of the lack of proper infrastructure and services . 
As a national of Spain , I am ashamed to see what is going on in my country . 
I have big concerns for the future of the Spanish tourism business now that the press is writing about the bad fortune of these people . 
( ES ) Mr Zapatero , I will now address you in your mother tongue , which is also my own . 
The people affected are not people of great wealth , they are simply people who have used the fruits of their labours to buy a house in this country with its mild climate and good people , a place to live when they retire . 
These people are unfairly having to pay fees to lawyers and other experts in order to defend themselves in the courts , without much chance of success . 
The European Union has been convincing its population that it is there to maintain peace in Europe . 
Is this situation I describe going to bring peace to Europe ? 
You are telling us that you are going to get Europe out of the crisis . 
If you can not solve the problem I am referring to , how much credibility can you have in solving Europe 's financial crisis ? 
Mr Zapatero , we want a solution now . 
We want the people to be able to live in the houses they bought . 
If this is not possible , they need to be granted a fair compensation that allows them to buy a similar property . 
This Parliament has only threatened to block payments of subsidies to Spain , but I can assure you that , if this situation is not resolved during the Spanish Presidency , I will do everything I can to turn this threat into action . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , I know you had an overloaded agenda at the Conference of Presidents meeting last week and there was not much time to debate the addition of this item to the agenda , but in the January plenary - as you all saw - members of different political groups expressed concerns at the points raised in the question on abuses relating to foreigners ' property in Spain . 
Wednesday evening provides an opportunity for the Commission to give an answer . 
Therefore , I invite our colleagues to support this proposal . 
On behalf of the EFD Group , I would invite you to hold a roll-call vote . 
If the majority is in favour of this proposal , I would like to propose a second roll-call vote to wind up the debate with a resolution . 
It is clear from the resolution that the Roma population is the largest marginalised community in the report receiving support , plus others of similar socio-economic condition . 
The overall budget for the European cohesion policy is a staggering EUR 347 billion over seven years - larger than many economies , even . 
My constituents in East Anglia are already deeply concerned at the scale of the traveller and gypsy communities , particularly so in Essex . 
They will be angry should any of these measures facilitate yet more EU mass immigration . 
Britain has already seen a rise in population of three and a half million - half the size of London - in the 12 years since the Labour Government came to power in 1997 . 
Given , too , that nearly nine out of ten new British homes - 86 % - will be due to immigration over the next 30 years , proposals like these seem to be yet another bridgehead for major immigration into Britain . 
We do not have the room . 
It is about space , not race . 
Controlled immigration through permits and visas is a good thing , but uncontrolled immigration is a bad thing , for that is the fast route to extremism , which none of us desire . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , on this day , I wish to ask all politicians and legislators to stop issuing all these demagogic laws on equality that make life more difficult for women who wish to work . 
They are scaring organisations away from employing women . 
Equality is not about laws : it is about behaviour . 
As a working mother , in all my 30 years of professional life , I have never been recruited or promoted on anything other than my qualifications and merit , and I would be insulted if somebody gave me special treatment merely due to my chromosomes . 
However , I do have specific requests for this Parliament to defend the women of this world . 
I want the Spanish land-grab problem to be debated and resolved , to end the suffering of many women and men who risk demolition of their houses and can not live in them . 
I want this Parliament to stop the flow of EU funds to the regions where this enormous breach of human rights is taking place . 
Do you not think this is violence ? 
I want this Parliament to hear and protect those who want to communicate their concerns on structural irregularities affecting the European budget , as I did eight years ago , and ensure they do not suffer my fate . 
Is this not violence ? 
I want you to withhold discharge to the European Commission until the auditors clear 100 % of the budget without reservations . 
This is how I wish this Parliament to honour the women and the men of Europe , those who , with their taxes , allow this European Union to exist . 
Roma communities in Europe continue to face unacceptable levels of prejudice and , in many cases , violence . 
However , as we see from the Decade of Roma Inclusion Initiative , there is a genuine feeling in this House that we want to see a comprehensive approach . 
However , we have talked about this comprehensive approach before . 
There is a growing amount of evidence that the situation on the ground is not improving enough . 
The Open Society Institute talks about prejudice and violence faced by Roma communities across Europe not decreasing . 
Additionally , the Fundamental Rights Agency 's discrimination survey found that the Roma were discriminated against more than any other group surveyed . 
We owe it to this House to see that the existing legislation - the Race Equality Directive , the Council framework on tackling violence - is actually implemented , and we owe it to our comprehensive strategy , as has been said earlier , that we look at this as a complex problem but a problem that requires action , an integrated approach , a comprehensive approach . 
So let this oral question be a bid to refresh this debate and come up with new solutions and implement those laws which already exist which should be helping Roma communities . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , the proposed 6.5 % increase on the Parliament budget for 2011 is yet another indication of how far this House has departed from the real world and the interests of its voters . 
How can we explain to our constituents in normal times , let alone in times of crisis , that the total cost they are paying for each one of us exceeds GBP 2 million per year ? 
How can we tell them that if they want a high-level parliament - which some take pride in - this is the bill they have to pay ? 
How do we explain to all those who are losing their jobs that we , the MEPs , need more staff because of the Lisbon Treaty ? 
Or that the officeholders in this Parliament need an increase in their allowances because they work harder ? 
The 15 % of youth who are unemployed in the UK , or worse , the 45 % of youth who are unemployed in Spain , will not be able to see how this increase will help them get a job . 
I , frankly , would not be able to respond if they asked this question . 
Can somebody explain to my voters how the fact that this Parliament has two seats , one in Brussels and one in Strasbourg , will help them pay the mortgage , feed their children and educate them , because this is a big part of the GBP 2 million cost that I spoke about before . 
As regards the Commission , it is all very nice to talk about noble objectives such as investing in youth and education , promoting the study of languages and fostering innovation for economic development and job creation in Europe , but the Auditors ' report gives no comfort on how European Union funds are being spent , nor do the outstanding commitments show the EU is very good at planning . 
No proposal for an increase in the budget should be tolerated ... 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , the discharge is one of the most important acts that we are responsible for . 
We are effectively being called to approve the way in which the European taxpayer 's money has been spent and we have to base our decision on the report by the European Court of Auditors . 
Would any board of directors approve the management of a company in such a state of affairs ? 
The situation has been the same for the last 15 years , and this Parliament has always granted discharge , on the basis of the improvement in the use of European Union funds . 
I am sorry to say that what the taxpayers want to know is if their money has gone to the right person for the right purpose and for the right amount . 
We should be making the decision on discharge in view of this . 
Over the years , the only progress achieved by the Commission , Parliament and the Council is the shifting of responsibility to Member States . 
While it is true that programmes are implemented in Member States , the institution to which the European taxpayers entrust their money is the European Commission . 
This is the institution that releases the money and that should , therefore , be performing the necessary controls before doing so . 
To make matters worse , the Commission and Parliament are now discussing a tolerable risk of error . 
Why tolerate any error - the new name for irregularity - when the financial complexity of the European Union is that of a medium-sized bank ? 
Last year , the Council discharge was postponed from April to November because this Parliament said it was not satisfied with their financial management , even if the auditors did not criticise their financial management . 
When the situation had not changed by November , this Parliament took the decision to discharge the Council . 
Now again , all cannons are directed to the Council and postponement is being proposed . 
Are we being serious about our responsibility or are we playing politics here ? 
Is discharge an interinstitutional game , as has been said in the past ? 
Can taxpayers tolerate this game anymore ? 
This is about their money . 
Colleagues , I call upon all of you to exercise your responsibility with due care and withhold discharge to the Commission , to Parliament , to the Council , to the European Development Fund and to the Court of Auditors , that does not publish the declaration of financial interests , until all of these institutions give proof of sound financial management . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , when I look at the projects the EIB finances I am struck by how many involve large companies and how few involve the SMEs they are supposed to help . 
Do companies such as General Motors , Electrolux and Arcelor Mittal really need to use the EIB except for the soft terms they offer ? 
And what have such loans done for the European economy ? 
Have they created jobs ? 
No , they have exported jobs , sometimes to cheaper European countries and sometimes outside the EU altogether . 
Electrolux is an example of EIB success . 
Lent EUR 250 million for capacity enhancement , they built new factories in Poland , Romania and Hungary . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Madam President , once again , I am appalled to see how the Members of this Parliament continue to demand budget increases while people in the Member countries are struggling to live through the present crisis . 
But today I will refer to the ethics of this House . 
In the present situation , is it acceptable that , while they demand power to control national budgets , the European institutions want to increase their own administrative budgets , as is the case with this Parliament ? 
Is it acceptable that the EU institutions go to the Court of Justice over the Council 's decision to moderate the increase in salaries of EU civil servants ? 
Is it ethically acceptable for Parliament to rush out its approval of the Council 's 2008 accounts in exchange for the latter 's approval of Parliament 's budget increases ? 
Let me explain : the Budgetary Control Committee has voted unanimously against approving the Council 's 2008 accounts due to a lack of transparency . 
Coincidentally , the Council has failed to approve budget increases for Parliament . 
I guess that we will see Parliament voting in favour of approving the Council 's accounts this week , and shortly afterwards the Council will be approving extra budget for the Parliament . 
These votes , ladies and gentlemen of Europe , the ones for Parliament 's budget and the Council 's discharge , are representative of the ethics of the institutions that aim to govern all of us . 
Any amendments that we felt unnecessarily harmed British farmers were not supported , as were any amendments that expanded EU control in this sector . 
UKIP opposes the way CAP has historically been used in corrupt ways ( e.g. phantom vineyards ) or the way it is used to top-up the income of certain politicians in EU countries who own ` farms ' . 
UKIP also objects to being forced to subsidise farms in other parts of Europe , which compete with our own farmers . 
UKIP is committed to trade in agricultural produce , under the terms of WTO rules . 
However , this vote does not concern deregulation , which is already in the treaty . 
I support efforts to make rail freight more effective , because of its environmental advantages compared to road freight . 
in writing . - I support efforts to make rail freight more effective , because of its environmental advantages compared to road freight . 
However , I want to make it clear that I oppose the ongoing liberalisation of railways in the European Union , which is responsible for the fragmentation , lack of investment and ineffectiveness of rail freight today . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Madam President , the revision of the Multiannual Financial Framework comes at a time of severe economic and financial crisis in Europe . 
We are not therefore in a position to cover the requirements of the Lisbon Treaty and the Europe 2020 strategy . 
The President of the European Commission has dramatically announced that democracy could disappear in Greece , Spain and Portugal unless urgent action is taken to tackle the debt crisis . 
Does anybody think that these countries are in a position to finance an increase in the EU budget ? 
Does anybody think that the rest of the Member States are in a position to bail out these countries and , additionally , to finance an increase in the EU budget ? 
The answer to both questions is ` no ' . 
Some difficult choices will have to be made at this point to allow a reduction in the EU budget . 
It is now time to get rid of programmes that have not proved efficient , of which we have many in the present EU budget . 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Madam President , I find this debate rather risible , almost laughable . 
I have heard several speeches now and we have been talking about eradicating poverty without once mentioning how we create more wealth . 
In the international domain , EUR 880 billion come out of the developing countries through all sorts of corruption and other activities which are not recorded or taxable or deposited in proper banks . 
This is a scandal of the financial community in international development . 
Those EUR 880 billion should be creating wealth in the developing countries . 
In Europe , poverty is on the increase because we are over-regulating ourselves against creating wealth when challenges are now coming from India and China . 
We need to revisit this . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , this Parliament has joined the European Commission in demanding an increase of almost 6 % for the 2011 budget at a time when national governments are proposing significant cuts to their own budgets . 
Those who defend the increase argue that extra funding is required to cover the new competences arising from the Lisbon Treaty . 
In fact , I do not remember having heard - or anybody mentioning at the time of ratification - that there would be any cost associated with Lisbon , or what this cost would be . 
Not even today do we have a clear idea about what the implementation of the Lisbon Treaty will cost the taxpayer . 
Yet again , the biggest increase that is being proposed - a 17 % increase - goes to the Cohesion Funds , the area where the auditors report the highest number of irregularities . 
If I find it stunning that in times of crisis , this EU is looking to increase its own budget , I find it more difficult to explain that the European Parliament wants to double its own entertainment budget . 
Are we saying that the UK is axing child benefits and university funding , postponing school-building schemes and making other painful cuts just to fund more champagne and oysters for the European Parliament ? 
Is it reasonable for the UK to make military spending cuts while its net contribution to the European Union will increase from around GBP 6 billion to GBP 8 billion in the next couple of years ? 
This is simply unacceptable for the British people . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , in presenting the mid-term review for the multiannual financial framework , the European Commission is bringing news which I believe will be a cause for concern for all Europeans , but more specifically for the British people . 
While there is a modest approach to limit common agricultural policy expenditure , there is a more radical attempt to eliminate the British rebate . 
But , worse still , there is a clear intention to create a new own resource . 
Like a thief , the European Union now wants to directly plunder the pockets of the British taxpayer . 
Be it carbon tax , a bank levy or whatever , it is certain that the taxpayers will be taking more pain . 
When people see the EU taking their money , they will increasingly resent the EU waste and lack of transparency . 
The elimination of the rebate and the creation of a new European tax - let us call it by its correct name - will not require a change in the treaty . 
However , the agreement reached between the German Chancellor and the French President about imposing political sanctions to ensure financial stability will require those changes . 
If the EU wants more power , it must ask the consent of the governed . 
If EU politicians want a new treaty , they must first give the people a referendum . 
Now there is a chance for ` cast-iron Dave ' to make good on his reneged promise to hold an EU referendum . 
I will believe that when I see it . 
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Budgets . - Mr President , in my opinion on Mr Feio 's report on governance and the stability framework , I emphasised three points . 
The first was the need to be serious about sanctioning Member States that breach the Stability Pact . 
Just a couple of days ago , the French Prime Minister and the German Chancellor even agreed to change the treaty to bring in tougher sanctions against countries that threaten the euro 's stability . 
I also emphasised the need to prioritise spending in the budget in case a Member State has to be rescued . 
Finally , I raised awareness about the need to evaluate the impact on the credit rating of the European Union since it acted as guarantor of the European financial stabilisation mechanism . 
The relevant paragraphs have been amended and no longer form part of my opinion . 
I feel obliged in these circumstances to disown my opinion . 
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Development . - Mr President , we must look at how the financing instruments - the DCI , the stability instruments and the human rights instruments - are important for the soft power that the European Union exercises around the world . 
That soft power is growing , as demonstrated by our election monitoring , observation , democracy campaigns , and so on . 
There are currently 36 civil conflicts . 
In the same manner , I think the human rights instrument needs to have oomph . 
It is just not good enough for us to talk and talk and talk : we need to have people on the ground , instruments for monitoring elections , good governance and all the other things for which we require funds . 
I am very pleased to support this . 
My colleague , Geoffrey Van Orden , has written to Mr Barroso and Mr Van Rompuy about this matter . 
If we have any teeth , we should show Mr Mugabe , who he has ridden roughshod over us , that we do matter and require this lady , his Ambassador , to go back . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , I am less grateful than the previous speakers . 
From the very beginning , the AIFM Directive targeted the City of London , an industry that was already sufficiently regulated by the British authorities . 
As usual , the EU misses the point : it is the banks ' reckless lending that caused an almighty credit bubble and the financial crisis , not alternative investment funds . 
Will this regulation prevent a further crisis ? 
Are we in a position to afford such loss of business ? 
Of course not , but the EU does not care . 
This directive will significantly add to the cost of these funds and reduce returns , driving smaller funds out of business . 
Its capital requirements will make it difficult for private equity funds , and it is venture capital start-ups that will suffer the consequences . 
Funnily enough , the Commission claims it wants to encourage research , development and entrepreneurship , in order to restore growth to the European economy . 
Instead of encouraging venture capital , they are putting their trust in public funding which is too cumbersome and useless for this purpose . 
It is also incredible to see how the EU has designed this directive from its ivory tower , turning deaf ears to regulatory developments in the rest of the world and adopting a protectionist and arrogant method , whereby the European Securities and Markets Authority will have the last word on who does business in Europe and where European funds invest . 
But where is Mr Cameron in all this ? 
He has betrayed the City of London - the most important British industry . 
He has allowed yet another transfer of power to Brussels without giving the British people a referendum . 
On behalf of British alternative fund managers , I can only say thank you very much , Mr Cameron . 
Do n't come to us to help reactivate the British economy ! 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , year after year over the last 16 years , the auditors have been refusing to clear 90 % or more of the budget , and this year is no exception . 
They talk about errors , but the nature of the irregularities they find goes far beyond that of a mistake . 
Suffice to say that such a situation would cause the closure of a company in the private sector and the conviction of its directors . 
The fact is that taxpayers ' money has been unlawfully spent . 
This year , the auditors claim that at least GBP 6 billion should not have been paid out . 
The Commission and the auditors will , as usual , blame the Member States , but the fact is that the failure resides within the Commission due to the lack of proper controls . 
The Commission is in the best position to establish the rules and to sanction those who breach them , but it has failed all along and this Parliament also bears responsibility , as it has approved the situation every year and keeps asking for an increase in the budget . 
There is no hope any more that the EU budget will ever be cleared by the auditors . 
At this point , the only way to protect taxpayers ' money is to reduce the EU budget drastically . 
On behalf of British taxpayers , I hereby request that you lead the demand for a significant reduction of the 2011 budget . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , let us be honest . 
Negotiations on next year 's budget collapsed due to this Parliament 's ambition to acquire more power over the financing of the European Union , even though those powers are not provided for in the Lisbon Treaty . 
Such a demand - which translates into the proposal for a European tax - is , and has always been , unacceptable to us . 
There have been threats to block funding to the Member States which refuse to agree to Parliament 's demands . 
Believe me , this would be the best news we could give to British and all European taxpayers - those who eventually fund both national contributions and a European tax . 
The auditors have refused to clear 92 % of the European Union 's expenditure for 2009 , and they estimate that at least GBP 6 billion should not have been paid out - a similar amount to that of last year , which has not yet been recovered . 
Blocking funding for those who used EU money irregularly would give the European Union enough resources to cover the noble causes that it claims it wants to support . 
At the same time , it would also give the European bureaucracy a certain degree of credibility . 
But this , I fear , will never happen . 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Madam President , Africa is the richest continent in the world and its people the poorest in terms of per capita income . 
I think Commissioner Piebalgs struck the right note when he said that we need concrete action at a regional , continental level . 
For example , much of Africa does not have electricity , so Africa does not have the proper education or the proper computers or the proper infrastructure for economic growth . 
We now need to put more electricity into Africa , we need clean water , and we need to have food security . 
I am delighted that the African Union is now following a policy of zero tolerance for coups d'état . 
Hooray , as the Council said . 
What we need to do now is to look at Africa as a modern , emerging economic tiger and enable Africa to be fuelled faster and quicker in order to grow richer . 
on behalf of the S&D Group . - Madam President , in taking this opportunity to speak on behalf of the S&D shadow , Ms Guillaume , I would like to thank the rapporteur , Mr Díaz de Mera García Consuegra , for having actively consulted all the shadows in his usual way and successfully pushed forward the negotiations with the Council . 
It is therefore absolutely necessary - for reasons of transparency - to further a better exchange of information with the European Parliament , on the one hand , and organisations such as the UNHCR and the Asylum Support Office , on the other . 
It is also fundamental to include and promote the human rights orientated approach to the mission of ILOs , which the Commissioner has just mentioned . 
It is surely needless to recall that , in the context of addressing mixed migratory movements , the posting of ILOs in third countries may raise several concerns from a fundamental rights perspective , in particular , regarding the right of individuals to leave a country , including their own , and the right of asylum seekers to flee and find protection from persecution . 
Finally , on the heated debate concerning terminology , we have in the explanatory memorandum a satisfactory compromise for what seems to be an endless debate . 
I will finish by thanking Mr Díaz de Mera García Consuegra and saying that our group will fully support his report . 
rapporteur . - Mr President , I fear that as I get into the first paragraph of my speech , there will be only me , the PPE coordinator , and the Commissioner left in the Chamber . 
I admire you for your stamina , Commissioner . 
Commissioner , you and the Council did a great job in rescuing this proposal , which now benefits those who should never have been excluded from the original Long-Term Residence Directive . 
There was another opportunity to include them in 2008 , and again unfortunately , through the failure to reach unanimity in the Council , this could not happen . 
So it is a very happy day today that a proposal taken on by my predecessor as coordinator in my group , Martine Roure , is now the subject of an agreement . 
I am very grateful to the Council , too . 
I pointed out in the previous debate that it was not present but , if it were present here today , I would thank the Council too , because during the Belgian Presidency , we were able to make good progress . 
I am very grateful for that . 
The proposal will bring direct benefit to all beneficiaries of international protection who have been in the EU for more than five years but currently can not become long-term residents . 
It will finally bring to an end their differential treatment compared to other third-country nationals and will give them greater certainty about their situation in the EU . 
The main issue for the negotiations boiled down to the calculation of the time period of legal residence to reach the five years . 
We supported the Commission that the full duration of the procedure should be taken into account . 
However , this was strongly opposed by the Council . 
We were particularly concerned about this , because asylum procedures can take many years in some Member States . 
The compromise we have reached in the negotiations is that at least half of the asylum procedure will be taken into account and , if a procedure takes more than 18 months , the whole procedure will then be taken into account . 
I hesitate to go on to the issue of correlation tables but I am duty bound to say something about them - I would rather not . 
I would nevertheless like to implore the institutions to reach a horizontal agreement on this issue . 
I would particularly urge the Council to recognise the importance of correlation tables for overseeing the implementation of legislation . 
We had a very difficult situation in which many of the dossiers considered of great importance by groups across this House could have been delayed because of this issue . 
I am very happy also that the scope of the proposal includes both refugees and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection . 
It is vital to continue the trend towards aligning the standards of protection and the rights granted to both groups , as in the recasting of the Qualification Directive . 
The agreement also contains many safeguards against refoulement . 
Given that beneficiaries will now be allowed to move between Member States , it is important that the protection background of beneficiaries is never forgotten . 
Therefore , Member States will have to include a comment in the long-term residence permit and will be obliged to consult the Member State that granted protection in cases of possible expulsion . 
The proposal also takes into account the transfer of protection to another Member State under national arrangements . 
The long-term residence permit needs to be modified accordingly in order to safeguard against refoulement . 
We have also ensured that the principle of family unity is upheld in the event of expulsion to another Member State , but it is also clear that it should not be automatic in cases where it may not be in the best interest of family members to go with the expelled person . 
I again want to thank my shadow rapporteurs from across the groups , Ms Nedelcheva , Ms Wikström and other colleagues who helped make this what I would call a pleasurable trialogue - if that is not a contradiction in terms ! 
I should like to thank all concerned for making this a reality . 
rapporteur . - Mr President , I should like to formally thank the Commissioner again for her work on this . 
One of the reasons why we hope that the first step on asylum can be completed in tomorrow 's vote - and I hope it is a resounding vote - is because , although asylum remains one of the deeply sensitive issues for this House , as Mr Busuttil explained for smaller countries in particular , every piece of legislation on asylum can have a disproportionate effect , not just on small countries , but also on flashpoint countries such as Greece . 
We should all proceed carefully , as we did in this report , and there are some items in the explanatory memorandum which ensure that Members ' concerns are taken very seriously , particularly when they come from serious Members . 
For example , I think we were able to incorporate Ms Nedelcheva 's concerns regarding integration and those of Ms Wikström when she talked about family members and expulsion , as well as the issues of domestic violence and other issues . 
It is when we have that kind of cooperation that negotiations go very well at the higher level of the Commission and the Council thanks to the work we do in Parliament with colleagues . 
Finally , Ms Sargentini , I really wanted to find an inventive way of saying that correlation tables were extremely important . 
To say that asylum seekers are now waiting for the correlation tables to be implemented is probably the most inventive and imaginative lobbying for the correlation table resolution to happen , so I hope Council was listening . 
Thank you again to all my colleagues for their support on this report after such a long time . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , I will be brief to compensate for the time that Mr Portas took . 
Many Members in this Chamber will congratulate themselves on having obtained a 2.9 % increase for the EU budget 2011 . 
Others instead will complain that this is not enough . 
I , for one , deplore the fact that this Parliament ignores the crisis that Europeans are going through and only looks to satisfy its own ambitions . 
I , for one , regret that Mr Cameron approves such an increase while imposing severe cuts in the British budget , a situation that has started to generate civil unrest . 
This money is not going to improve the economy of those Member States , nor is it going to provide jobs for those who are losing them , but if kept in Britain , it would avoid the need to increase the tuition fees , for example . 
Of course we will not vote in favour of this budget as increased . 
in writing . - UKIP believes that the best reaction to a humanitarian disaster is for independent nation states to coordinate their aid efforts voluntarily , and not to have them set centrally by the undemocratic EU . 
We note the debacle of the EU 's slow and small efforts in Haiti , and thus we feel that the EU can not be trusted in future humanitarian crises . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Last week , a member of the European Court of Auditors , who retired recently after 15 years of service , made serious allegations in the media . 
The allegations , which come as no surprise to me , pointed essentially to the lack of independence of the EU auditors , which affects the level of transparency in the reporting of irregularities . 
The clarification letter published yesterday by Mr Engwirda does nothing more than confirm the Commission 's power over the auditors , and it calls into question the basis on which this Parliament has been granting discharge for the past 15 years . 
It is now time for this Parliament to demand that the EU budget and accounts are audited by a truly independent body external to the EU institutions . 
Without such an independent audit , the Council and Parliament are in no position to continue discharging the Commission of its financial responsibility . 
Will you , Mr Barroso , allow an external auditor to review the accounts and tell us the truth about how European taxpayers ' money is being spent ? 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr Barroso , I disagree with your response . 
In response to the criticism made by the European Court of Auditors in the last ten years , the Commission has turned to the auditors - and this is recorded by the media - and asked them to change their methodology of work so that the report on EU expenditure would show a better figure . 
In my 30 years of professional experience in the area of accounting and audit , I have never seen the auditee instruct the auditor on how to do its own work . 
How can we now know if a reduction in the error rate is due to the change in methodology requested by the Commission or to an improvement in the controls ? 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Madam President , it is good to have this debate again ; we had one recently . 
It shows our concern for the people of Haiti - we are obviously more concerned about the people of Haiti than the government of Haiti is concerned about the people of Haiti . 
There are a million people homeless in Haiti ; 230 000 have died ; 300 000 are injured . 
But only 5 % of the rubble has been cleared , only 15 % of houses have been reconstructed in some fashion or other . 
If the government of Haiti does not care about its own people , then we have to use the concept of responsibility to protect . 
Until and unless we do that , it is quite absurd for us to ask our two excellent Commissioners to go on popping up and down in Parliament trying to tell us what they can and can not do , when the local capacity to do anything is so fraught and fragile . 
When an earthquake happens , the first thing you need to do is to clear the rubble . 
In order to clear the rubble , you need heavy lifting machinery , cranes , helicopters , bulldozers and the capacity to drive them . 
If there is nobody capable of driving this machinery , then you have to bring people in from somewhere else who know how to drive them and get them to be driven . 
But the left wing would oppose any Member State army or air force or navy coming and helping to do that . 
You can not expect people from Oxfam and Save the Children and other such organisations to be driving tractors and lifting heavy rubble . 
We have to depoliticise our argument and be practical about helping these people . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Madam President , in discussing the Black Sea area , one word leaps to mind , and that is ` caution ' . 
All must tread carefully here . 
We have seen the unfortunate conflict in Georgia , where there was fault on both sides . 
Had Georgia been in NATO , the consequences could have been disastrous . 
Whilst I support Georgian independence , it is unwise to goad the Russian bear in its own lair . 
Then there is Turkey which the EU is playing with by offering membership despite the reality that members such as France will veto an application . 
There are real dangers in leading Turkey on . 
Disappointment could drive Turkey into the hands of Islamic extremists . 
Finally , underlying all of this is the fact that the Black Sea is the hub for vital Caspian oil and gas . 
Tread carefully indeed . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Madam President , this banana is the stuff of war - an EU-inspired trade war with America that has lasted 16 years and has now been lost spectacularly . 
The EU has now been fined nearly USD 200 million by the World Trade Organisation and been forced to drop its illegal tariffs - all because of the protectionism that lies at the heart of the EU , in this case protection of French colonies . 
May I say that this very banana which I bought today in the European Parliament supermarket is illegal ! 
It does not conform to EU rules in terms of the length , the width and the straightness of bananas . 
With such barmy protectionism and such silly rules as this , one has to ask : is the European Union crazy or has it merely gone bananas ? 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Madam President , this issue has technical considerations and it also has human , poverty considerations . 
In this joint debate I would first like to tell the Council that Parliament is here to monitor and check , and look with openness and transparency and accountability at the way we spend our taxpayers ' money in terms of international development . 
If the Council can not recognise that , and can not recognise that delegated acts should go through Parliament 's internal procedures so that it can avail itself of the right of scrutiny , then what the heck are we doing here ? 
Why are we here if we are not allowed to be accountable to our voters , constituents and taxpayers over the money that they give us in good faith to spend , through the Commission , on international development ? 
Secondly , on the issue of bananas , in which Parliament 's considerations should also be taken into account , the European taxpayer has lost on both counts . 
We had a freer trade agreement which has now gone ` phut ' , and what we now have to do is to indemnify and compensate those banana-producing countries again . 
in writing . - I voted for the closure of the CEPOL accounts for which I had refused discharge last year because this is the normal procedure that should happen every year immediately there is clarity from the European Court of Auditors ' report that there is no need for further adjustment , independent of the fact that discharge has or has not been granted . 
Given the irregularities observed , CEPOL should be closed down . 
in writing . - I voted for the resolution to oppose the appointment of the Chair of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority , not because I found any deficiency in the individual appointed , but because I object in principle to the creation of this new authority . 
in writing . - I voted for the resolution to oppose the appointment of the Chair of the European Securities and Markets Authority , not because I found any deficiency in the individual appointed , but because I object in principle to the creation of this new authority . 
in writing . - The European airline industry and its customers have not had an easy ride over the last few months ! 
The infamous volcanic ash crisis occurred precisely when the airlines , and its passengers of course , were coping with the effects of a very difficult recession . 
However , in the midst of these challenges comes some good news for business and passengers alike ! 
Today 's vote on the EU-Brazil Air Service Agreement brings significant mutual benefits . 
Firstly , Brazil is a very strategically important partner for the EU with an enormous potential future market . 
Currently , more than four million passengers per year fly between Brazil and the EU . 
A country with a rapidly developing tourism sector , this number can only rise . 
From a business perspective , Sao Paolo is the financial capital of South America . 
The development of the highly specialised oil and financial industry will lead to greater demand for air travel . 
The main achievement of this is the removal of nationality restrictions in the existing bilateral agreements between Member States and Brazil . 
This is an extremely important first step in strengthening EU-Brazil aviation relations which has allowed Brazil and the EU to move towards negotiating a comprehensive air transport agreement . 
in writing . - We have opposed this legislation on the grounds that it is certain that : 
The EU should not have the right to make laws for the UK . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Madam President , it is a disgrace that in the present economic crisis , a proposal for a 5 % increase for 2012 is already being put forward for this Parliament 's budget . 
Members ' assistance allowance was increased once again by EUR 1 500 per month only last week . 
No attempt is being made to tackle the outrageous waste caused by the three seats of this Parliament . 
Worse , the European Parliament has now engaged in a EUR 60 million refurbishment of a building to be used as the European History House - as if we did not have museums in Europe . 
Does the EU want to rewrite history ? 
And what about the External Action Service that will employ , among others , 50 officials who will earn 20 % more than the British Prime Minister , and will need a new building that will cost EUR 10.5 million per year . 
Madam President , on behalf of the British taxpayer , I beg you to stop this rip-off . 
in writing . - I voted against the Podimata report on innovative financing because it wants to introduce a financial transfer tax which , while it is claimed that it is needed to protect the economy from risky trading and to provide a fund to use in the event of another crisis , and will only be placed on wholesale and professional industry , it will inevitably be passed on to the consumer and citizen taxpayer who is already struggling in this crisis . 
The tax will have a terrible impact on the City of London , the financial service industry which is Britain 's largest and greatest contributor to the Treasury . 
It will cause companies to leave the UK with a loss of jobs and a loss of tax revenue . 
in writing . - I voted against the Fernandes report on budget priorities for 2012 because the European Parliament is still going to look for a 5 % increase in its budget even though the rest of the European institutions will confine themselves to 1 % . 
The cost of the EU is , in fact , unsustainable for the nations of Europe and needs to be reduced . 
I am appalled at the European House of History being approved as part of this report : it is a 70-million-euro-and-counting vanity project which is completely at odds with the supposed claims of austerity . 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Mr President , it has been said in the debate but I will reiterate that we are all aware of the huge extent of the disruption caused by the volcanic ash cloud . 
As has been mentioned , over 100 000 flights were cancelled , tens of millions of business and holiday passengers were not able to travel as planned , goods and cargo were delayed or not transported at all , businesses were affected and our European carriers and airports suffered catastrophic financial losses . 
All in all , it cost the European airlines more than EUR 2 billion . 
Institutions across Europe and in Member States who were responsible for dealing with such issues were absolutely paralysed and , quite frankly , if it had not been so serious , it would have been practically laughable . 
In all this chaos , one thing was clear . 
Air transport is enormously important for the European economy and as individuals , we depend on a thriving and efficient air transport industry where safety for crew and passengers is the first prerogative . 
I certainly welcomed the fact that the Commission , in its assessment of the crisis , accepted that Europe needed to revise procedures through the International Civil Aviation Organisation . 
International best practice tells us that responsibility for dealing with potential hazards related to volcanic ash must be transferred to the airline operators as part of their safety management systems . 
The role of the authorities is to audit the airline safety management system to ensure that it meets the required safety standards . 
This is the procedure applied by the US and other countries which have managed to deal with volcanic eruptions without major disruptions to air traffic . 
Clear and decisive joined-up leadership is essential and we need the European Aviation Safety Agency to ensure that EU Member States adapt their current procedures to guarantee that airline operators will take responsibility and be supported in making such decisions in future . 
Lastly , the crisis in April and May last year made it absolutely clear that as a priority , we need to push for the full implementation of the Single European Sky and SESAR . 
Both European industry and the taxpayer have already invested huge sums of money in these projects and , as European lawmakers , we must continue to push forward well balanced , cost-effective and structural reforms . 
I welcome the comments by the Commissioner today . 
Let us hope that we move forward now in a positive way . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , I rise to ask for the postponement of the vote on the Fernandes report . 
The reasons are straightforward and relate primarily to the paragraph of the report which covers the House of European History . 
The Committee on Budgets has been given conflicting , and I believe , misleading figures for this project . 
When I had suggested that the cost would be EUR 10 million , a faceless parliamentary official accused me of lying in the press by saying my estimates were , I quote , ` excessive ' . 
This is not the way a Member of this House should be treated . 
What is worst of all , Mr President , is the clear conflict of interests in having the chairman of the Budgets Committee sitting on the board of trustees of the House of European History , even if he is not remunerated . 
In no other parliament would such a clear conflict of interests be tolerated . 
It makes an absolute mockery of the committee process . 
Until these matters are cleared up , the vote on this report must be postponed . 
on behalf of the S&D Group . - Mr President , I speak on behalf of my group when I say that we are in a very difficult situation practically and politically , in which Member States have been talking about completing an asylum package since 1999 . 
If there is a political imperative , then it is today , with North Africa - and the Mediterranean - in crisis . 
Talking about burden sharing should now lead to a practical and sensitive proposal . 
On behalf of my group , I want to say that Sylvie Guillaume has prepared - in cooperation , as Mrs Hohlmeier said , with all the shadows - a proposal which is both sensitive and effective , and really provides , as the Commissioner said , a cornerstone of the asylum package . 
This is why the vote on Wednesday is so vitally important . 
If we can repeat the majority that we achieved in committee , we can reach a position of completing an asylum package which pays attention to the many concerns and sensitivities across this House . 
If I can give you one example : I dealt with refugee cases for many years as an asylum lawyer , and I know that the enemy of good asylum procedure - fair , just , effective asylum procedure accepted by most Members States - is the lack of front-loading of asylum cases . 
The fact that there is poor quality decision making right across the European Union in many Member States leads to higher costs for Member States , not lower costs . 
So when Member States talk about the financial implications , they should understand that quality of decision making , getting it right the first time , and ensuring that the appeals procedure works effectively , is where we save money and where we are fair and just . 
If any Member doubts that this report is an effective , fair and just report , they should look at these procedures very carefully and understand that much work has gone into dealing with many of the potentially controversial aspects . 
If we are going to continue with this kind of asylum lottery , we are not paying attention to the realities of asylum numbers going up . 
The rules in the Procedures Directive cover perhaps the most complex part of the whole asylum package . 
That the procedure should be fair and effective can be a matter of life or death for those fleeing persecution . 
We have to recognise our responsibility in upholding international obligations when dealing with people seeking protection within our borders . 
Let us ensure that we send a strong signal to the Commission - but mainly to the Member States - that we are serious in this Parliament about completing the asylum package in a way that will be acceptable to many right across the House . 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Mr President , democracy is not just a periodic right to put a cross on a ballot paper . 
Democracy depends also on a connection between government and governed - an affinity . 
To have a functioning democracy you need a ` demos ' , you need a unit with which we identify when we use the word ` we ' . 
If you take the ` demos ' out of democracy you are left only with the ` kratos ' , with the power of a system that must compel by force of law what it may not ask in the name of civic patriotism . 
You can not create the institutions of functioning representative government by bureaucratic fiat . 
We have tried it in the European Union . 
We have created all the attributes and trappings : the European Parliament , the political parties , the elections and so on , but you can not make people feel European in the same sense that somebody might feel Norwegian , Japanese , French , Portuguese or whatever it is . 
A party should grow organically because its members recognise a community of identity and common interests . 
It is not something that we can do with public funding or at the stroke of a bureaucrat 's pen . 
So , to be clear , the ECR opposes this legislation , we oppose the concept of having transnational parties . 
We form some of our constituent members into an alliance of parties but we oppose the single statute . 
We oppose the increases in the budget - which seems to me an extraordinary allocation of resources in the present economic climate - and I oppose my compatriot and my friend Andrew Duff 's idea that these transnational parties should be allowed to spend effectively EU money in national referendum campaigns . 
You will not create Europeans by spending public money . 
Not all the gold in all our national treasuries put together can serve to convince people of a false idea . 
in writing . - My group supported the report on Statistics on Tourism , which updates and modernises the method for collecting European statistics on tourism , particularly in the light of modern trends such as low-cost flights and short-stay holidays . 
Politicians need to acknowledge the great importance of the tourism industry to Europe . 
Individual Member States realise that more must be done to help this sector , which contributes greatly to economic growth . 
For example , tourism is one of the largest sectors of the UK economy . 
It directly supports 1.36 million jobs - and an expected 1.5 million by 2020 - and nearly 3 million if indirect employment is included . 
These figures speak for themselves ! 
However , we must ensure that EU-level action does not encroach on the principle of subsidiarity . 
Member States are competing with each other , despite being able to share best practice and cooperate on certain issues , such as improving transport links across Europe and other measures enabling easier consumer travel . 
Let me end with a simple message - Visit Britain ! 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Mr President , I want to thank Mrs Theocharous for raising the issue of the status of the European Parliament at international conferences : we are one of the three sister institutions of the EU and we need to have a look at this very quickly or there is going to be trouble . 
We are the largest donor to the least developed countries in the world ; we have trebled aid in the last few years , but poverty has increased , not decreased . 
Now the least developed countries in the world do not have industrial capacity , they have agriculture capacity . 
If you are really interested in eliminating poverty and helping these people , we need to increase their capacity to trade . 
We have got to increase that effort otherwise we are just fooling ourselves and those countries . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , in Britain , the first day of April is called April Fool 's Day and people take great delight in fooling one another . 
So when some report that Iceland is on course to join the EU next year , I think : ` April Fool ! ' 
In reality , a survey has shown that 64 % of Icelanders want to remain independent , only 24 % want to carry on applying for EU membership and , indeed , 60 % of Icelandic businesses are against it . 
It is also said that Iceland wants the security of the euro . 
April Fool ! 
Even Portugal 's own banks are currently refusing to buy Portuguese bonds . 
Iceland will neither give up its rich fishing grounds - producing 40 % of its exports - to join the disastrous common fisheries policy , nor abandon an Icelandic Parliament that is more than 1 000 years old and the winner of a UNESCO award for democracy . 
Even with a banking hangover , Iceland , like Britain , remains better off outside . 
No fooling there ! 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Madam President , I believe it is madness for this European Parliament to approve the 2009 EU budget when financial irregularities or possible fraud affect between 2 % and more than 5 % of the total . 
These are not figures made up by me to suit party-political propaganda , but estimates from the European Court of Auditors . 
The level of irregularities for 2009 is abnormally high and equates to half of the UK 's contribution for the EU for this year , roughly EUR 6.3 billion . 
This House is set to approve discharge for 27 EU agencies - expensive and needless quangos - while the European Court of Auditors has launched a full-scale investigation into their accounts for 2009 . 
This should ring alarm bells ahead of the vote . 
I repeat , in the strongest possible terms , that it is nothing short of madness to sign off EUR 523 million of - let us remember - taxpayers ' money , while the official auditing arm of the EU is investigating possible fraud and financial mismanagement at these agencies . 
Medicines Agency and CEPOL postponement is piecemeal . 
Year after year we hear the European Commission blame the Member States for the irregularities , yet it does absolutely nothing about it when it has the power to block funding . 
Instead it is proposing to move from a zero tolerance strategy to one of tolerable risk when it comes to EU expenditure fraud . 
It will be an absolute disgrace , and an affront to taxpayers , if this House grants discharge for the 2009 accounts . 
The only conclusion to be drawn from a vote in favour of discharge is that this House and its Members openly endorse financial mismanagement or worse . 
I call on the British Prime Minister to reduce the UK 's contribution to the EU in line with the amount of the irregularities if the European Parliament fails to act in the interests of the British taxpayer . 
As rapporteur for the European Parliament report on nation building , I have to say that this is an extraordinary opportunity for us to partner South Sudan , one of the poorest and newest ` countries-to-be ' on 9 July , and make nation building - that we keep talking about in this Chamber - a reality on the ground . 
This is a country rich in natural resources , but it is also a country with the most awful social indicators . 
A child born in South Sudan today has a higher chance of dying in infancy than attending primary school . 
What a statistic that is . 
They do not have a civil service . 
They need the rule of law , they need good governance , they need transparency , they need our expertise as partners . 
They need to invite us and we need to provide our partnership of know-how . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , this House will , yet again , be accused of being out of touch with reality if it votes for a budget increase for the period 2014-2020 . 
The reason given for this increase is the funding of the 2020 strategy , the one it is said will take us out of the crisis . 
Let us recall what happened with the Lisbon strategy ; it was an epic failure . 
Taxpayers ' money was wasted and we should not repeat this mistake . 
The European Court of Auditors reports a significant percentage of irregularities affecting different policy areas , averaging 2.8 % of the budget year after year , and we continue to flow funds to these regions . 
Projects have seen costs grow by up to three times their original estimates ; others suffer delays while being superseded by better technology . 
Such is the case with Galileo , which has gone from a EUR 7.7 billion budget to a EUR 22.6 billion budget . 
More than 40 % of the budget continues to be invested in the common agricultural policy , while only 4.7 % of the workforce in Europe is engaged in this . 
The common fisheries policy - deemed a failure by Commissioner Damanaki - requires taxpayers to send EUR 1 billion to Brussels every year . 
The European External Action Service costs an extra 500 million each year and has not yet demonstrated its raison d'être . 
All these examples should certainly justify not a budget increase but a budget reduction . 
in writing . - Galileo , Europe 's own global navigation satellite system , is of great importance to Europe and , in particular , the UK . 
This project , which I fully support , has not only received significant public funding but private industry throughout the EU is also investing money , time and expertise into developing this system . 
However , despite recognising the need to push forward with this , I felt the need to abstain on the final vote . 
Mr Remek 's report suggests completing the Galileo system will require additional funding of up to EUR 1.9 billion in the next Multiannual Financial Framework ( MFF ) . 
In this current difficult financial climate , I have to oppose this increase in spending , especially considering that the programme is already 60 % over budget . 
I believe that Galileo must stay within its current budget . 
Let us look at how we can improve the current system within the means that we have . 
I would strongly urge the Commission to take robust action to improve its programme management and to achieve savings . 
In order to do so , the Commission must undertake a thorough and comprehensive impact assessment , so that we can make an informed decision regarding the future funding of the programme . 
in writing . - I voted against the Garriga Polledo report from the SURE committee because it wants to increase the EU budget for the period 2014-2020 by 5 % . 
I could not vote in favour of the Conservative Party amendment to freeze the budget at 2013 levels because I firmly believe it is a reduction that is needed , and their stand represents a weak starting point for negotiations . 
I introduced an amendment to reduce the budget by 2.8 % , which is the average rate of irregularities affecting the EU budget as reported by the European Court of Auditors . 
Among the amendments and innovations I opposed was an amendment to create an informal and powerless monitoring group in the European Parliament to scrutinise programmes . 
on behalf of the S&D Group . - Mr President , the situation for our group is very clear . 
We heard on the one hand from the Council that , if a European Arrest Warrant is executed properly and effectively and not in the many trivial cases we have seen , its advantages outweigh those disadvantages . 
We should not forget the 12 000 figure - I feel very strongly about the fact that in my constituency of London , we caught the attempted bombers of July 2005 . 
When we understand the serious and symbolic effect of these cases , the European Arrest Warrant can and should work . 
The oral question we have today for our group is very simple . 
We are now in the area of moving from the reports to the action , and we have a situation where we have two hard cases . 
But that also requires the Council ( I am not referring just to Hungary , I am talking about the Member States ) to help us in pushing forward the procedural guarantees , and the issue of unacceptable pre-trial detention periods for many citizens in my own country . 
These are the situations which create the problems for a tool which could be effective if used properly . 
But the hardest case is going to be creating an even playing field in relation to procedural defence rights . 
This is the position we want to see for our group , and we believe the commitment is here . 
But we must pay close attention , particularly to the Member States when they ask for the European Arrest Warrant to be effective , but , on the other hand , do not carry out the actions to help us get the legislation to create that even playing field . 
Mr President , my group is certainly of the view that what is happening in the Middle East is very significant and that we can not let this week with Parliament in full session pass without any response or discussion . 
Could we leave it to you , Mr President , to see whether the Council is prepared to make a statement on the Middle East and what is happening in the Lebanon ? 
Could we then look to you to see what is possible . 
I am reluctant , as I know many of my colleagues are , to remove Chernobyl from the agenda , as suggested by Mrs Oomen-Ruijten . 
However , it would be possible for us to come back to the issue of Chernobyl which does not have such immediacy although it is the tenth anniversary . 
We could take this in two weeks ' time , whereas the issue of Lebanon is crucial at this moment . 
Perhaps , Mr President , we could ask you to look at this with the Council and see what would be possible . 
Mr President , I wish to respond to the point made by Mrs Stenius-Kaukonen that those of us who live in the more northerly parts of Europe suffer from colder winters ! 
It is something which is fairly obvious when you state it but clearly it has profound implications for the people who live in those climates . 
In particular , the Scots should take a leaf out of the book of the Finns , the Swedes and the Norwegians on how to insulate their houses . 
A lot of lessons could be learned by our people and these could be applied right across Europe to everybody 's benefit . 
This is an example of something which could be promoted right across Europe , and it is a great pity if some governments take refuge in subsidiarity and say that you can not apply it to us and so miss the chance of doing something significant about the targets which Europe agreed to at the Rio Summit . 
Our problem with the Commission and the Council of Ministers is not that we have any quarrel with their rhetoric or their good intentions , but is simply a question of their lack of ambition to translate this into resources and real measures . 
It is important that the European Council is seen to act through the Troika rather than just leaving actions to individual Member States of the Union , no matter how worthy and welcome those individual actions may be . 
It is the action of the European Union that my group believes is crucial at this moment . 
Those of us who have vested much hope and expectation in the Middle East process are today sad and despairing . 
In this House we have paid fulsome tribute to our friends in this Israeli Labour Government who , by acting with courage and vision , began the process to lead the tormented Middle East out of conflict and towards a long-term peaceful solution . 
On behalf of the Socialist Group today we extend our undiluted support for that peace process . 
We offer our support as well to the Israeli Labour Government and those of their Arab neighbours who have met the challenge of peace and have become bigger men because of it . 
Let us also not underestimate the immense provocation to which the Israeli people have been subjected and to which their Labour Government has steadfastly over months urged understanding and tolerance . 
What were they supposed to do in the face of unprecedented murders , terrorism and sustained attack ? 
Rather it perpetuates hate , encourages yet more young Arabs to take up arms against Israel and it destabilizes Israel 's friendly Arab neighbours . 
We condemn utterly those in Lebanon who have permitted the attacks against Israel to continue from Lebanese territory . 
We deplore the hand of Iran in this and look to Syria to exercise leverage in Lebanon if it truly seeks peace as its leaders so recently assured a delegation from my group that it did . 
The European Union has a growing responsibility to support those seeking peace on its borders . 
We owe it to Israel and to the Palestinians . 
We owe it to the memory of Yitzhak Rabin and we owe it as well to Shimon Peres and to Yasser Arafat . 
Mr President , I have come here tonight to protest in the strongest possible terms and to ask you to change the Rules of Procedure which are being applied tonight to the statement by Commissioner Fischler on BSE . 
At the Conference of Presidents last week it was agreed that the statement would be made , to be followed by 30 minutes of questions without a speaking list . 
Anybody who looks at the agenda as published will see that it says quite clearly ` Statement by the Commission on BSE , ... followed by 30 minutes of questions ' . 
In the allocation of speaking time it says : ' 3 to 6 p.m. , 9 to 12 midnight , excluding the Commission statement on BSE ' . 
It is completely clear and the recollection of everybody from my group and , I understand , others who were there in the Conference was that there would be no speaking list and we would apply the rules of the Delors procedure whereby the President in the chair would call Members on a show of hands . 
We are notified this afternoon that this procedure has been changed and that speaking lists have been submitted and been requested by other groups . 
I would like to insist now that we revert to what the agenda clearly says was the procedure to be adopted and that we should have a free 30-minute question time following the statement from Commissioner Fischler . 
Mr President , I have to say that is manipulation of the worst sort . 
It is perfectly acceptable for you to make that decision now , given the time of day that it is , given the fact that my group has prepared for this discussion tonight without a speaking list . 
You are now saying that we should stay here and wait until this first debate is finished before that decision is made . 
There is no reason why we should not . 
I ask you to take the decision now , Mr President ! 
Mr President , if you are telling me that at some later point tonight I may have to produce a speaking list for my group then I want some time to prepare it , and that means that we must take the decision now ... 
Mr President , I thank you very much for your cooperation . 
As you will be in the Chair , I am sure it will be an extremely good session . 
Mr President , I thank you for calling the Member who represents both Aberdeen and Angus ! 
We are very hoping that the ban on UK beef can be lifted globally and we are all united on that . 
However , if this proves not to be immediately possible , could the Commissioner confirm that there is no rooted objection in principle to the application of a regional or zoning approach , in particular as regards Scotland and Northern Ireland , given that they have a separate administration , a lower incidence of BSE and a much better control policy ? 
Would the Commission therefore give serious consideration to any such programme were this to be brought forward from the UK for Scotland and Northern Ireland ? 
If such a scheme were brought forward , what conditions would have to be met ? 
For example , there is talk of cow passports . 
Are we talking about extending the quality assurance to give it official approval so that we have in effect cow passports with visas to make sure that they can be safely exported ? 
Mr President , I understood at the beginning of this debate that you were going to take it as a free debate , that you would see people raise their hands and call them as you saw them . 
I understand , though , that you have a list from some groups that you are using as an orientation for your choice . 
I think that is not playing by the rules . 
Mr President , I understand very clearly what Mr Pasty is asking for . 
There is a problem which needs to be addressed if that is going to happen , namely that there is another very important report immediately after the Santini report , the Dankert report on the discharge for the European Parliament 's budget for the year 1994 . 
As originally agreed in the conference of presidents , with two hours speaking time allocated to agricultural prices , the Dankert report would have started at 5 o'clock and there was some prospect of that debate being held with some integrity . 
With what is now proposed , we have no idea when that debate is going to start . 
That means that if the Dankert report starts in the evening because the Santini report extends over time , then we will be in a position where it very unlikely that any senior member of the administration of this Parliament will be present when we debate the discharge of Parliament 's budget for 1994 . 
That seems to us entirely incongruous . 
We have no difficulty with the debate on the Dankert report beginning at 9 o'clock , provided we can be assured that the senior members of the administration , from the Secretary-General downwards , are here for the discharge debate on Parliament 's budget . 
Mr President , I just want clarification . 
My Group would support the motion if we could have an assurance that should the debate on the Dankert report , which is on our own Parliament 's discharge , be held later or not start until 9 o'clock , the senior members of the administration of this Parliament will be present . 
This is a crucially important debate for us . 
So , if we could have that assurance , my Group will vote in favour . 
Mr President , I just wish to make the point that some of us are here at 9 o'clock for the night sittings and know exactly who comes to these night sittings ! 
It is not the case that people are usually here when important discussions are going on . 
Mr President , we understand that Lord Plumb has to put a good face on a terrible story ; we feel for him . 
Mr President , I am glad this debate is taking place now . 
As you know , our group and the Liberal , Democratic and Reformist Group wished it to take place during the last part-session . 
It is certainly not before time . 
This is a crisis which affects the whole of Europe . 
I am a citizen of the United Kingdom but I think it is totally shameful and irresponsible of the UK Government to try to paralyse the entire decision-making mechanism of the European Union on this issue . 
Of that there should be no doubt whatsoever . 
It is even more galling when we think that this was supposed to be the great year of advance for Europe . 
With the intergovernmental conference we were going to try to bring Europe closer together . 
Instead , what we are getting is a series of petty veto measures - even measures which the UK itself argued for in the past are suddenly unacceptable and vetoed . 
I say to the UK Government that enough is enough is enough ! 
We have had the partial lifting of the ban which I welcome . 
I was glad to hear Commissioner Fischler 's statement . 
It is time now for the UK to say this phase is over . 
They must re-think very seriously . 
What worries me - and I echo what Mr de Vries said - is that the irresponsibility of the UK action is leading step-by-step through a phoney war to a cold war to a tide of xenophobia which is sweeping through the tabloid press . 
Die Bild-Zeitung reproduced an article from The Sun which gave its readers twenty ways to annoy the Germans , would you believe ! 
One of them was to burn the German flag and to send the ashes to Chancellor Kohl . 
What sort of message is this to be sending across Europe , in particular when England is to host the EURO 96 football competition which will produce all kind of tensions ? 
I say to the House that the UK Government has unleashed a tiger . 
It will regret this and all of us in this House certainly deplore these activities . 
There is , however , some good news . 
An opinion poll published in Scotland this morning shows that the net result of the Conservative Government 's campaign against Europe was that they have gone down in the opinion polls to 12 % in Scotland - half the percentage of the Scottish National Party which is on 24 % , though , I have to concede , well behind the Labour Party . 
That is the verdict of the Scottish voters on this anti-European hysteria which has been whipped up by the Conservative Government . 
The Scottish farmers are very worried . 
I spoke to one this morning who said they had given up hope . 
He said the crisis was supposed to be about helping the beef farmers - the Aberdeen Angus area which I represent - and they were getting absolutely nothing . 
Some farmers have benefited but some have lost business and received no compensation . 
The beef farmers are asking where the action is to follow the rhetoric . 
They are not at all impressed by what they have heard from Michael Forsyth , the Secretary of State for Scotland who controls the Scottish Agriculture Minister . 
I drew the House 's attention to this man at the last part-session as the man who wanted to haul down the European flag in Scotland instead of flying the Scottish flag in Europe by saying let us have a special deal for Scotland , let us get things moving . 
Mr President , as you know , we have a discussion and a resolution on the summit meeting on Florence . 
Part of that , according to most groups I imagine , will be to make some sort of statement from this House on the British Government 's policy of non-cooperation in Europe . 
As you know , the Foreign Affairs Ministers are meeting today to discuss that issue and I wonder , therefore , whether on just that single issue we could shift the deadline so that we can take into account in our resolution what is decided or not decided tonight by the Foreign Affairs Ministers . 
Perhaps we could hold the deadline on just that single issue until 11 a.m. or noon tomorrow to enable our resolution to be up-to-date and to make sense . 
I thank the Commissioner for his fairly predictable reply . 
I wonder if the Commissioner would have come to Parliament about this issue if we had not asked the question first ? 
We have about US$ 1 billion worth of products involved here , including jewellery and perfume as well as fish products . 
We really need to know what the implications are for multilateral trade agreements . 
Does the Commission think it might be useful to try to persuade Italy to stop using illegal drift-nets ? 
Scientific studies show that less than 1/5 of the targeted species that are caught in the nets are actually used , while the rest of the catch is often thrown back dead . 
So what is the Commission going to do to persuade Italy to put a stop to this very sorry state of affairs ? 
He seemed to be saying all the right things . 
If I could just clarify it a bit , did I correctly understand him to say that , other things being equal , he would prefer to rely on local staff in NGOs rather than having Europeans acting to some extent as minders , which I take it could well be the perception ? 
The reason I ask that is because , after many years of decolonization , there is still an impression in some countries that the European Union has not changed its basic mentality . 
I hope I am wrong and perhaps he could confirm that I am wrong in that regard . 
I find it disappointing given the scale of the crisis that we have with BSE that the Commission has not yet asked for figures or started to look at the monitoring of the situation as far as jobs are concerned beyond the measures that the Commissioner has spoken about such as intervention and confidence-building . 
It is the Commission 's responsibility to produce an annual employment report in the European Union and therefore I would suggest that it is very important that the Commission actually starts some scheme of monitoring the jobs and the sectors that are under threat in this crisis . 
I know anecdotally , as an individual Member of the European Parliament , that there are thousands of jobs under threat across the European Union because of the BSE crisis , not only in my own constituency , but in many of the European Union countries outside the United Kingdom . 
So I believe that it is important for the Commission to take this very seriously . 
I would ask what steps the Commission intends to take to ask for figures from the Member States on the threat to jobs and jobs that have already disappeared because of the BSE crisis ? 
Mr President , I should like to begin by thanking both Mr Santer and Mr Dini for their speeches this morning . 
The detail of much of what they have said will be taken up by colleagues from my group who will speak later in this debate . 
As leader of the Socialist Group , I want to concentrate on the major political issue which currently confronts the Union . 
My group today wants to make it entirely clear that we utterly condemn the aggressive and offensive campaign waged by Conservative politicians and some of the media in the United Kingdom against our partners in the rest of Europe . 
We want to express our shared horror at the apparent ease with which connotations of war , the language of hate and the symbols of intolerance have so readily been invoked in the United Kingdom . 
The British Government has chosen a policy of non-cooperation with its partners in Europe . 
They have chosen to veto European actions across a wide spectrum . 
They have been responsible for preventing action , for example , to fight fraud in Europe and to deal with insolvency by which so many companies in Europe are affected . 
Unbelievably , they have refused to allow 1997 to be designated European Year against Racism . 
These , amongst approximately 70 other EU actions , are all vetoed . 
Will it deal with the real public health fears of Europe 's people ? 
Have I missed something ? 
Was BSE exported to Britain by another Member State of the Union ? 
Of course not ! 
The British Government 's inept handling of the British-generated BSE crisis has led to collapsing beef sales all across Europe . 
All the European Union 's industry is paying the price for one government 's incompetence . 
This Friday and Saturday in Florence our fifteen prime ministers have a job to do . 
They must take real action to fight the scourge of unemployment in Europe which Mr Santer so eloquently described . 
For my group it is entirely unacceptable and unforgivable for one government to prevent action on measures to create jobs when that same government has in its own hands the resolution to this institutional crisis . 
Abandonment in Britain of government control has allowed free rein to an industry responsible for contaminating massive swathes of its own country 's dairy and beef herds . 
When action was finally taken to ban the use of such foodstuffs in the domestic market , that same industry had absolutely no scruples of conscience about selling potentially infected foodstuffs to feed the herds in the rest of Europe . 
Where is the morality in that ? 
Where is the sense of decency and where is any modicum of acceptable business ethics . 
In the view of my group this is the political reality of ill-considered , ideologically motivated deregulation of the Thatcher sort . 
Yesterday the Commission adopted a framework agreement for dealing with BSE which is designed to come into being simultaneously with the abandonment of the British Government of its policy of non-cooperation . 
We welcome that positive signal from the Commission but there can be no half measures . 
The Conservative Government in Britain must abandon its non-cooperation policy fully and immediately and the framework agreement must be posited on substantiated scientific data . 
I am a Londoner , I am British and I am European . 
Madam President , I am solely putting forward what was the intention of the people who drafted the original text . 
Clearly there are linguistic problems in two areas which can be sorted out in the text . 
But the other point concerns the clear intention when the compromise text was put together . 
Paragraph 3 does not reflect properly the intention of those who drafted the text . 
Madam President , the Socialist Group supports the report of our rapporteur , Enrique Barón Crespo . 
My group campaigned for a Mediterranean policy for the EU and insisted on parallelism between our approach to the east and to the south . 
It is the Mediterranean policy and its funding which we are talking about tonight and , in our view , the MEDA programme must be seen in the light of our commitment to the development of democracy , economic advancement and the cause of human rights in the Mediterranean basin . 
The Socialist Group will support the approach to global MEDA funding . 
But it is fair to give warning that we believe that the Government of Turkey has yet to deliver on the promises made to this Parliament before the ratification of the customs union in December last year . 
We know that in the field of democratic reform and human rights abuses the situation has not only stalled but has actually deteriorated since the Turkish general election in December . 
Nor has Turkey made any effort to deal with the political problems of Cyprus and the Kurdish area . 
In all these ways Turkey is found wanting , and yet it has an exceptionally close relationship with our Union and we have a right to expect more . 
My group will therefore be looking to use our budgetary powers this autumn to keep up the pressure on Turkey . 
We would also ask the Commission to report on the use of forced child labour in Burma and whether it intends to withdraw the system of generalized preferences . 
Mr President , it is a matter of great regret to our group that we should feel obliged yet again to table a resolution about human rights in Turkey , but I feel we have a moral duty so to do . 
When as a Parliament we agreed to the customs union with Turkey , before Christmas , we did so on the strict understanding that steps would be taken to allow real freedom of speech and full respect for the human person . 
Sadly , it appears little or no progress has been made in this direction . 
For that reason we are , as a Parliament , continuing to withhold our agreement to the adoption of the regulation for the associated financial protocol and I find it hard to see how we could change our attitude . 
The reports of ill treatment , to which colleagues have referred , in Istanbul 's prisons , are particularly disturbing . 
Then we have the former MP Leyla Zana and others who continue to be held in jail , while the famous writer Yasar Kemal continues to be harassed . 
In any case we look to the Commission to provide us with the further reports promised to us on the human rights situation in Turkey . 
Mr President , if you wonder why the Chamber is not very full , may I raise with you a real problem of access for Members and visitors at the present time . 
I would ask that someone looks at ways of ensuring easy access for Members to the plenary while at the same time allowing visitors access to our public gallery . 
The situation is very bad today . 
Mr President , I want to thank Prime Minister Prodi , President Santer and the President-in-Office , Mr Dini , for their reports . 
I listened with particular and careful attention to the two reports by Mr Prodi and Mr Santer on the evaluation of Florence . 
So the signs and signals in advance of Florence were not auspicious . 
Therefore , I suspect that most people in the European Union were not surprised that nothing came out of the Council with regard to employment , bearing in mind the chaos in the Union and its decision-making at that moment . 
( Applause ) On employment we have heard pious words , pious words and pious words . 
Over two years of discussions in summit we have seen very little real action on employment . 
Only if action follows those words are the words great . 
We should take one example : the trans-European networks . 
There was great expectation that finally , after all this time , there would be funding for the TENs coming out of the Florence Summit . 
We know now that is not to happen , it is not to be . 
Not only was there no money for the TENs , but let me remind everybody in this House and the Council , only four days before the Florence Summit , after months of tortuous negotiation between Council and Parliament , after meetings that lasted not just through the day but through the night , there was agreement in conciliation on the TENs . 
In Florence , four days later after that agreement , the Council decided unilaterally to change the conciliation on TENs . 
I want to say now to the Council that if it is going to take unilateral action of that sort , I hope it will come to this Parliament . 
I hope Mr Prodi will be able to tell us how the Council intends to bring that change to the agreement made four days before with this Parliament to this Parliament so that we can be a part of the TENs agreement - as we deserve to be . 
( Applause ) Let us be in no doubt that if this House had unilaterally changed that conciliation agreement , the Council would have been furious with us and we have a right to be furious with it . 
They do not differentiate between the Council , the Commission and Parliament . 
They blame the European Union and my group does not want to be associated with this failure on employment . 
It is the single most important issue for our people and we want our citizens to see , as we in this Parliament have done , that we care about them and we care about employment . 
We must now look forward to Dublin . 
Madam President , I should like to thank Mr Martens for reiterating his personal commitment to the agreement made by the group leaders to ensure that the Nordmann report passes through this House before the summer recess . 
I would also remind the House that agreement by the group leaders included an absolutely clear commitment that Members should refrain from receiving gifts , payments or benefits . 
It is important that the House understands that . 
It is important that the House understands the crucial nature of getting that agreement through this House if we are to demonstrate the transparency which Mr De Vries spoke about . 
My group will support putting the Nordmann report on the agenda as long as it is clear that , as far as we are concerned , that agreement holds . 
Last week it was not so clear as far as the Group of the European People 's Party is concerned . 
Mr Martens has expressed his desire that it should hold . 
We will support him by putting our votes behind the clear commitment made by the group leaders earlier this year . 
Madam President , I wanted to raise something on Tuesday 's agenda - not to change the agenda but to ask for clarification from you . 
We have the discussion on Tuesday morning on the Commission 's information policy regarding BSE ( mad cow disease ) . 
There was an absolute demand from the Conference of Presidents that Mr Santer himself should address the plenary on this matter because this is not an issue for the agriculture Commissioner but concerns the Commission policy on information . 
Could you please inform us whether it will be Mr Santer ? 
Mr President , Parliament wanted a binding clause on environmental protection in this legislation , as reflected in our second reading amendments . 
I want to thank Mr Piecyk and Commissioner Kinnock for their help in winning this clause . 
We want an emphasis on rail and water networks rather than massive motorway building and we want rigorous environmental impact assessments . 
It was astonishing to meet such blinkered resistance on the part of the Council on this crucial issue . 
We have ended up with just the bare minimum which can be accepted . 
It will be up to this Parliament to ensure that there is no backtracking on the environment article , which we have won under such difficult circumstances , by the Member States and we will continue to watch the trans-European networks very carefully . 
In the spirit that we have ended up with much more than we started with , this House should approve the networks . 
Then let us get on with trying to find the money to build them and to create the jobs which we so sorely need in this Community . 
I wonder if the Commissioner could clarify what is meant by uniform electoral system . 
Is it the intention to have exactly the same system in every Member State , which is clearly neither achievable nor desirable , in which case it will probably be best to amend the Treaty of Rome ? 
As for Mr Watson 's point about the balance of the house being skewed by the electoral system in one Member State , would the Commissioner agree that there is no proportionality across the European Union as a whole , nor any intention of having proportionality , because smaller countries get proportionally more seats than bigger countries , in which case the position in the United Kingdom is not the main factor skewing the balance of the House ? 
It does seem to me to be extraordinary that this Parliament , which keeps making a song and dance about having more powers given to it , fails to address the fundamental democratic deficit at its heart , which is that it does not represent properly the political views across the continent of Europe . 
I take issue with my colleague there from England , who seems quite complacent about this , and I do trust that the Commission does not share this complacency , that frankly it does not matter very much . 
I suspect there are those in the Council of Ministers who do feel that , who feel that the less democratic legitimacy Parliament has the better , and one way of demolishing our democratic claim is to point to the fact that there is not this spread of opinion . 
Nor equally in those countries which do not have any kind of territorial aspect of the electoral system is there any fairness built in , because it is quite possible that the French delegation would not contain a single Breton or single Corsican . 
Madam President , that is a quite unwarranted attack . 
The leader of the British Labour Members wished very much to speak but , because we had no idea of when , we had anticipated that the debate would take place tonight . 
So , I reject entirely that suggestion that there is disinterest . 
There is very great interest and concern amongst all the British Members of this House . 
That is a quite unwarranted attack and should be withdrawn . 
Mr President , I would like to raise a point of order with regard to the speed with which written questions are replied to by the Council . 
I understand that there is an undertaking that the Council will reply to MEPs ' questions within six weeks , but quite often replies come two , three or even four months late . 
I know that the Council actually lacks staff perhaps to deal with these questions , but I hope the Irish presidency will give priority to answering the questions as quickly as possible and preferably within the six-week deadline . 
Mr President , in March of this year I was privileged to be in Lesotho and to visit South Africa , Namibia and Botswana as a European Parliamentary representative . 
It was tremendously encouraging to go back after 20 years and see the transformation that had taken place in South Africa . 
It behoves us all to do everything possible to encourage the process of economic regeneration in South Africa so that the democratic gains which have already been made and which have so delighted us are not put at risk . 
In a month in which we have seen Nelson Mandela fêted - and rightly so - in London and in Paris there is all the more reason to be pro-South African and do everything we can to support South Africa and the neighbouring countries , which are very much dependent on the prosperity of South Africa . 
I would like to make one particular point in support of Mrs Günther 's excellent report . 
It seems to me to make all kinds of sense to delegate the responsibility for small-scale projects to the Commission 's representative in South Africa . 
This is the kind of thing , as Mrs Kinnock has rightly said , that will make a tremendous difference . 
Instead of these horrendous delays , waiting half the year to know if your project is going to get the go-ahead , let that be given to our man in Pretoria , Cape Town , or wherever he is , so that he can authorize and they can get on with development . 
We thank Mrs Günther and should back all her amendments . 
Mr President , I am delighted to step into the breach . 
I thought that in your generosity you would give me the Liberal Democrats ' allocation of time as well , seeing as I had helped to save their bacon . 
However , seriously , I think this is one of the issues on which a very wide spectrum of this House , if not the entire House , can unite . 
Even those of us who are very critical of the nuclear powers within the European Union , the French and the British , can , I think , make common cause on this issue . 
The same argument applies to the French nuclear deterrent . 
Let us have a united front on this and I would be very happy indeed to either propose or second the joint resolution . 
Mr President , the Cyprus problem is an issue of human rights for both Greek and Turkish Cypriots . 
The presence of 35 , 000 Turkish troops occupying over one-third of the island of Cyprus denies the human rights of Greek Cypriots but also of Turkish Cypriots . 
The situation in the northern part of Cyprus has been made deliberately worse by the illegal settlement of many thousands of mainland Turks , in itself a clear contravention of the Geneva Conventions . 
Progressive forces in the occupied area are recognizing , with the support of the European Commission and this Parliament , that membership of the European Union for Cyprus and the imminent accession talks provide not just the right future for Cyprus but also a window of opportunity to solve the Cyprus problem . 
Increasingly , over the last two years there has been an escalation of terrorist activity often focused on those very progressive forces promoting and discussing the future of a united Cyprus as a member of the European Union . 
Kutlu Adali , a distinguished Turkish Cypriot intellectual , author and respected journalist has paid with his life for openly expressing and defending these views . 
He was murdered on 6 July in occupied Nicosia . 
Nobody has yet been brought to justice for this terrorist act nor the many bombings of offices , houses , cars and political offices in the occupied part of Cyprus . 
We are told that one in five people in occupied Cyprus is a member of the Turkish security forces . 
Yet it seems they can not catch anybody responsible for these acts . 
The illegal regime and the Turkish security forces must act to find the perpetrators of these acts and the person or persons who murdered Kutlu Adali . 
Kutlu Adali was one such . 
Madam President , may I be allowed to ask one or two supplementaries ? 
First of all I understood Mr Marin to say last month that he was opposed to the generalized system of preferences . 
There was no ` if ' or ` but ' about it and so I am surprised that the matter has been referred to a special committee . 
Thirdly , it was my understanding that there was to be a report shortly about forced labour . 
When is that report going to be made available , if it is indeed being prepared ? 
Madam President , I put questions which have not been answered . 
I think I am entitled to an answer to the two other questions concerning investment and the report on forced labour . 
If the Commissioner is not able to reply at this moment would he be good enough at least to give me a reply in writing ? 
Mr President , I would like to remind Members of this House that we actually asked for this statement . 
It is not the Commission who is insisting on it . 
We asked for it because we believe that we are able to think for ourselves about what we want from public services within the European Union . 
We are hoping , thereby , to have an influence on what comes out of the Commission . 
So as some Members here seem to be confused about that , I thought it was important to stress that we asked for the statement . 
Mr President , I wish to begin by expressing my personal thanks to President Hänsch , Prime Minister Bruton and President Santer for their excellent contributions this morning . 
And it is crucial that we begin by saying this : I very much regret that so few of the Members of this House were here to listen to the excellent speeches we have just heard . 
There can be nothing else going on in this building that is more important than this debate , and that message will certainly be transmitted to my Group at its meeting this evening . 
In our debate last year we looked forward to the opening of the Intergovernmental Conference . 
We were then aware that , if we were to prepare this European Union to meet the historic challenge of enlargement to Eastern and Central Europe , the Baltic , Cyprus and Malta , it was incumbent on us all to secure an effective , democratic , open European Union which , more than anything , reconnected with its people , reconnected the vision , the hope and the aspirations which inspired the post-Second World War generation to embrace European integration and reconnected that vision with the people . 
Today , six months after the opening of the IGC , there is a general mood of disillusion and depression . 
If we allowed ourselves the self-indulgence we would have to admit that there is something to be depressed about . 
Yet it should not be so ! 
The last year has been characterized by stagnation and paralysis : stagnation in the fight to create jobs in Europe ; stagnation in the IGC process for all to see ; paralysis in our desire to defend the common policies which make up the European social model ; paralysis in our ability to generate a common will on issues challenging peace and stability on our continent . 
I know that I will be accused of undue pessimism and a confrontational approach but can someone explain to me why , when we have a multi-billion ecu surplus on our agricultural budget , we can not find the political will simply to transfer a proportion of that money to secure funding for tens of thousands of our young people by investing in the funding for the fourth research programme , our investment in the jobs of the future ? 
Why we can not find the will to transfer a proportion of that money to secure peace on our continent by rebuilding civil society in former Yugoslavia ? 
That is not European money being spent simply on people and places far away , rather it is money spent to make absolutely sure that our children will not be engaged in a long and bloody conflict for the next generation on European soil . 
Somebody tell me why the European Council can not carry out its side of the bargain on the trans-European networks and find the will to transfer a proportion of that money as it promised . 
Somebody , please tell me how it is that we can still talk about the European social model when we are being driven further down the road to the Americanization of European life , a model which I must tell you is rejected by European people who do not want to be a low-wage , insecure , ill-trained workforce . 
We are underestimating the determination and will of European citizens . 
What is missing in our political analysis and thinking for the future is the recognition of the importance of our culture to our people . 
Frankly , there is not much time left for us to make this Union a source of pride to its people , through adding value to their cultural and historical life . 
Please , Mr Bruton , at the special meeting which you are organizing in Dublin , try to raise the ambitions of the prime ministers . 
You asked us , Prime Minister , to help you to find the answers in securing the support of Europe 's people . 
Let us have a strong message to Europe 's people ; let us hear that the leaders of our countries are at least united in insisting that there will be an employment chapter in the new Treaty with real bite . 
Let us hear that there will be a commitment not just to economic and monetary union but to people - their economic future and their well-being - and let us hear , as well , that the Union can be united in securing a commitment to fight discrimination against our ethnic minority population . 
Let us give to all those living in our countries trust and confidence in tolerance as our first virtue , to give non-European citizens and residents confidence in our humanity . 
This is even more important , Prime Minister , given the shameful remarks made recently by Mr Le Pen . 
We here abhor and reject his philosophy and we are demeaned , frankly , by his presence in this House . 
Let us hear that the European social model is alive and kicking , is secure in the hands of our government leaders and will be the building block on which everything else is built . 
In conclusion , after a year dominated by grubby stories of deception and dishonesty over mad cows , the trauma of the abuse of our most vulnerable young children , the continuing exclusion of 18 million people and the total stalling of any effort to improve the ecology crisis as if somehow with economic problems the environment has ceased to be of concern - after all this , it really is time to demonstrate the positive political will to move forward . 
I thank the President-in-Office for his very succinct and useful analysis of the situation . 
However , as the presentations from the Council and then from the Commission rolled on , I came to ask myself increasingly what we were doing in the Kurdish area , or what were we doing in Iraq . 
The answer seems to be that the European Union is providing humanitarian assistance and we are doing it very well . 
We hope very much that our aid workers will not be touched by the problems , and that the people that have helped them will be immune . 
That is a very minimalist ambition indeed . 
It is very sad if the European Union 's foreign affairs effort is to be limited to picking up the pieces after the damage has been done , however important that may be . 
We have to ask ourselves some questions about the European Union 's Common Foreign and Security Policy and where we are going in this year of the IGC . 
Would it not be far better if , instead of the post-imperial fiction of having two Members of the EU who maintain that they are nuclear powers with a world role , which entitles them to a permanent seat on the Security Council , we were to get our act together as a European Union and say : let qualified majority voting apply to the CFSP . 
This would prevent any one state from vetoing action which the majority of Europeans would like to see . 
We are part of the international community . 
All fifteen Member States belong to the United Nations . 
The European voice and the European effort are not being maximized . 
The last speaker , Claudia Roth , was right when she pointed to a democratic solution . 
We have got to put our efforts into self-determination for the Kurdish people , autonomy within Northern Iraq and within Kurdistan in Turkey , all these areas , because that is the only way to a lasting solution . 
Mr President , I want to thank Mr van den Broek for the statement he made about Turkey in his usual measured tones . 
However , I must say I am shocked at the statement from Mr Mitchell . 
While he was speaking I did not know whether to laugh or cry . 
I could not believe we are serious in this House about asking the Council to take on our foreign policy after hearing that statement about one of the countries with whom we are supposed to be dealing in foreign policy . 
Mr Mitchell , I must say that I was concerned when you opened your statement by saying you understood we wanted Cyprus and Turkey to be taken together . 
You have missed the point entirely . 
Cyprus is an integral component of our political relationship with Turkey because Turkish forces are occupying the northern third of Cyprus . 
They have 35 , 000 soldiers in the north of Cyprus and it was the Turkish Foreign Minister in the Turkish Grand National Assembly who recently admitted that she had released 65 million Turkish lire to pay for the transporting to Cyprus of Turkish Grey Wolf fascists who - as we have seen on video - took part in the murder of the two Greek Cypriots in the buffer zone . 
So , how can Cyprus not be considered as part of our relations with Turkey ? 
Of course it is an integral part ! 
We support the territorial sovereignty and integrity of the island of Cyprus , and Turkey is occupying one-third of it . 
Cyprus , we must remember , is an applicant state for European Union accession which has had a positive avis from the Commission . 
So , of course we want to consider what has happened in Cyprus as an integral part of our political relationship with Turkey . 
I must say to you that we are not talking about Turkish Cypriots . 
Forty-five Turkish Cypriot organizations have condemned the murders which took place in the buffer zone in the summer . 
These people were brought from Turkey specifically because not enough anger and hatred exists amongst Turkish Cypriots to do what the Grey Wolf went to Cyprus to do . 
That has to be an integral part of our discussion this afternoon . 
And we were told it was all because they wanted to do it for the people of Turkey , not because the European Union was forcing it on them . 
And we also heard they were going to deal with the Kurdish problem . 
Clear promises made . 
In fact , the relationship has not only not improved , it has got worse in all the areas I have just mentioned . 
We have all received a constant stream of faxes , pamphlets , videos and eye-witness accounts of the everyday occurrences in Turkey and most recently in Cyprus . 
What do we get from the Turkish Government and the states that support it ? 
Endless faxes bewailing the fact that Turkey is misunderstood and mis-represented . 
And I must say that is rather what I thought I heard coming from the Council today . 
I know from Turkish citizens , from Kurdish refugees and Turkish Cypriots - many thousands of whom live in my constituency in North London - that they do not understand why Turkish authorities treat them the way they do and why Turkey can not see that recognizing minority rights , respecting the dignity of their own citizens and removing the occupation forces from Cyprus would be good for Turkey . 
Not bad , but good ! 
The recitals of our resolution make clear the grim reading of what has happened over recent months . 
Oppression , murder , intimidation are not European values . 
Good intentions , expectations and promises have all been devalued by the actions of the Turkish authorities . 
Conciliatory resolutions and double standards have no place in our relations with Turkey . 
Words and promises must , frankly , be translated into political will and clear action . 
My group will therefore be making every effort to freeze all financial commitments to Turkey . 
We call on every political group in this House to support this approach and expect the Commission and the Council to respect our view and to act accordingly . 
Only in this way will we get real change in the relationship with Turkey . 
Mr President , a 16-year old Turkish girl was detained in Turkey for 19 days . 
During that time she suffered electric shock treatment to her body and genitals , beating and hanging by the arms for long periods . 
This horrific episode took place in November 1995 , just days before our Parliament voted through the customs union with Turkey . 
We were told then that the Turkish authorities condemned state torture and that they were making serious efforts to respect fundamental human rights and democracy . 
Yet , on 7 March 1996 , Yasar Kemal , Turkey 's most renowned living writer , was given a 20-month suspended sentence for ` initiating hatred ' in an essay entitled ` Dark Cloud over Turkey ' . 
And then we were assured by Mrs Çiller only nine months ago that Article 8 of the Anti-Terror Law had been changed . 
But most of those who have had retrials are still in prison and instead the authorities have been using Article 312 of the penal code under which Yasar Kemal was tried . 
People suspected of offences under the Anti-Terror Law can still be detained for 15 days without access to lawyers or to family . 
In the south-east it can be 30 days ; often it is longer . 
Extrajudicial killings are taking place , not only in the troubled south-east but also in Istanbul and in Ankara . 
Since 1991 87 people - I hope the Council representative is taking these figures in - have been killed during raids on houses in these cities . 
In April 1995 the justice minister admitted that ` unfortunately , these extrajudicial executions are carried out in every field of life ' . 
As at least one speaker has said , Leyla Zana , the current Sakharov Prize holder , is still in prison . 
Let us not forget that Turkey is a signatory of the Council of Europe 's Convention on Human Rights . 
I regret to say that I feel that the Commission 's and Council 's silence on human rights in Turkey has been deafening over the past few months . 
Last August we had the interim report from the Commission , but the final version is still awaited by this Parliament . 
It seems to me that there is a lack of political will in both the Commission and the Council to tackle the Turkish Government on their human rights record . 
I would urge their representatives to remedy this as soon as possible . 
Let them convince us , not least the Council , that they have some principles and they are not always guided by expediency . 
Mr President , I am saddened to be addressing the House yet again concerning a distinct lack of democracy and human rights in a third country , namely Indonesia . 
This is a country which enjoys a booming economy and is a member of the important Association of Southeast Asian Nations . 
But of course , as we all know , especially those of us who take part in these debates , such credentials are no guarantor of democracy or respect for human rights . 
The unnecessarily violent raid on the Indonesian Democratic Party 's headquarters , just days after the ASEAN ministerial meeting in Jakarta , is yet another example of the government 's attempt at suppression of any opposition to its regime in Indonesia . 
On this occasion , 90 people were injured and over 180 were arrested ; most are still in prison . 
The Peoples ' Democratic Party , another opposition party , has also been criminalized and many of its supporters too are in detention . 
Furthermore , prodemocracy activists are being held incommunicado for engaging in peaceful activities . 
This can not surely be allowed . 
The Indonesian media have been told to watch out for communist propaganda . 
Journalists have been intimidated by the security forces and an atmosphere of censorship prevails . 
We contend as a group that we can not close our eyes to the repression in Indonesia . 
The structures for democracy do exist and every effort must be made to uphold them . 
Mr President , when the Dutch East Indies became Indonesia many of us rejoiced at this step in decolonization and towards democracy . 
But how sour this dream and this vision have become ! 
The days of the Bandung Conference , which was a watchword for liberation , seem like many centuries ago , because what we have now is a repressive regime . 
The proof of this is not just the attacks on their own citizens but the continued denial of the right of self-determination not only to East Timor , which colleagues have already testified to and which this House has already underlined many times , but also in West Papua or West Irian Jaya . 
We have to ask the Commission when it is pushing Indonesia - as we assume it will - on human rights , to let these particular denials of the democratic right of self-determination be to the fore and at the top of the agenda , so that when Indonesia finally achieves a return to democracy these areas can be liberated , just as Catalonia and the Basque country benefited when democracy came to Spain . 
It is a very serious concern and you will know the enormous impact this will have on the fears of the European people about their public health and consumer safety . 
I would like to ask the European Commission immediately to respond as to how they are going to react to the action taken by the British Government , which seems to be a complete about-turn on the action plan that was presented by the British Prime Minister to the European Council when it last met . 
Madam President , what has been raised here is a matter of immense concern to European people . 
Of course none of us wants to damage further the beef industry but it is remarks like those we have just heard that have done such damage to the whole of the beef industry . 
It is completely ridiculous that representatives of the British Government speaking here are not truthful about the fact that this is a major concern . 
Their deception over many years has actually led to this problem . 
It is time they faced up to that reality and treated the European people with some respect . 
Madam President , in view of the fact that I asked for the statement earlier on the latest news from the British Government , I have a question for Commissioner Fischler . 
His proposals , on which Mr Funk 's report is based , are posited on the information that there would be an additional cull in the United Kingdom of 147 , 000 cattle which , we understand , has now been suspended . 
If that is the case , what are the implications for the proposals which have been discussed here this morning in Mr Funk 's report ? 
Mr President , as you will remember this was discussed at the Conference of Presidents last Thursday and there was agreement that some of that explanatory statement was not in line with the Rules of this House . 
You undertook to deal with that before it came to the House . 
I hope that will resolve the problem and that we can go on as planned and deal with the Posselt report on the agenda . 
And many thanks too to the Commission and Commissioner present with us today for their proposal which , quite rightly , complements a trilogy of measures to support Europe 's audiovisual policy and industry . 
The Europe Guarantee Fund is a key card in our strategy in Europe to bring investment and jobs to this fast expanding sector of the economy . 
Cultural pluralism will only be developed when we have economic pluralism and it is economic pluralism in cinema and television this fund will really help develop . 
The recent report by the European Investment Bank that our rapporteur mentioned confirms the value , viability and potentially positive impact of such a fund on our cinema and television industry . 
The report confirms also , very importantly , the positive interest from the financial sector . 
I make a plea to Ministers : they must take this report seriously as well as the views of this House today . 
The European Parliament supports the fund , the industry professionals support the fund and certain visionary governments support the fund . 
In this respect we owe much to the Irish Minister , Michael D. Higgins , whose determination to put culture and the audiovisual industry at the heart of the European Union is absolutely second to none . 
We wish him luck at the next meeting of culture ministers on this issue . 
But certain governments are hesitating ; certain governments have said ` let 's see what Ecofin Ministers have to say about this report ' . 
As Michael D. Higgins recently said , if the European Union is going to continue to be purely about economics and competition policy it will not win the hearts and minds of our citizens . 
It is on television and cinema screens that we are going to win the hearts and minds of our citizens and by supporting our audiovisual industry . 
As the Irish Minister said : books and films are not buckets . 
Films are also not fish , I would add . 
At the Cannes Summit of 1995 heads of state actually asked the Commission to go away and propose this fund . 
I wish ministers had not so easily forgotten that they asked for these proposals in the first place . 
The United States Administration has always been very serious throughout this century about supporting its film and TV industry . 
We have to be equally serious . 
Let our ministers show for once that they are serious about culture and the creative economy and that they care more about that than cars or carrots or , indeed , competition policy . 
This fund should be up and running at the beginning of 1997 . 
Anything less would be to betray our audiovisual industry and the jobs that it can create . 
We deplore summary and arbitrary executions . 
We deplore forced labour . 
We deplore abuse of women . 
This is indeed a telling indictment of the regime in Burma , though alas not without parallel in the world . 
Added to that , as we have heard , there is the personal danger which Sang Suu Kyi has been placed in together with her personal supporters to whom , on account of the Sakharov prize , we must feel very committed . 
Allow me merely to put a number of questions to the Commission and the Council to which , if they can not be answered today , I would like to receive a reply . 
I am still incidentally waiting for a reply to the questions I put to the other Commissioner who came here , was it one or two months ago ? 
I have had no reply yet . 
One , will the UN special working group on arbitrary detention and imprisonment be visiting Burma ? 
I wish to be informed . 
Secondly , will the UN special rapporteur on Burma and the EU investigate the circumstances of the death of Mr Nicholls to which previous reference has been made not only today , but you , Madam Commissioner , know all too well the circumstances , as I do . 
Three , what action is the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and the EU taking on Burma ? 
Four , when will the Commission complete its inquiries into the possible future suspension of the GSP trade preference benefits for Burma ? 
Well , we gather the study is going on , but for God 's sake , get on with it ! 
Five , what was the reaction of the Japanese Prime Minister in Tokyo when the presidency raised the question of Burma with him ? 
Are we likely to get any support at all from Japan on this issue and may we know in due course , if the answer is not available today ? 
Sixth , is the Commission compiling a list of companies doing business with Burma ? 
I have some lists , but they must be very short compared to what business is being done . 
What view does it take of the operations of Total and its natural gas pipeline investment project in Burma ? 
The Taliban have now begun their own fanatical religious crackdown and as the country emerges from the rubble of war , it wakes to a different terror . 
We hear stories of Afghan women and girls who have been banned from working , from attending school , from leaving their houses unless accompanied by a male relative . 
Many Afghan women are war widows and without their earnings their families starve . 
Strict rules governing status and dress have been enforced , and I am sure we have all seen images of how the Taliban so-called religious police have brutally enforced these rules . 
In one recent incident in Kabul these police actually beat nurses in a hospital who were arriving to help the injured and the dying . 
Women doctors , as Mrs Baldi has said , are also being forcibly stopped from attending the sick and sick women are being told they can not be examined by male doctors . 
We have also had distressing reports of public executions , torture , stoning , decapitation and amputation . 
These fanatical militiamen try to intimidate the country into submission by these means . 
As a woman , a socialist and a Member of this Parliament , I believe we in the European Parliament must show our utter condemnation of these atrocities and make it clear that the international community will not tolerate these atrocities , that action must be taken and that women 's rights are human rights . 
This must involve a coherent political approach to Afghanistan by the European Council and the Member States . 
It must also mean an arms embargo and an embargo on any equipment that can be used by the Taliban in their bloody war . 
In conclusion , if we do not act there could be even more terrifying consequences for the Afghan people and for the whole of south-west Asia . 
Mr President , the Sudanese situation is one of these on-going situations where one keeps feeling that this regime can not last . 
It is one of several in the world which seem inherently unstable , where the condemnation , as has been said by Mr Schiedermeier , from the United Nations has been strong and consistent . 
Our own European Parliament , in joint assembly with the African , Caribbean and Pacific countries , has condemned the situation in Sudan . 
We must maintain the pressure on this regime because I am quite convinced its days are numbered . 
In supporting the resolution , let me focus on two points in particular : one is that the right of self-determination for the southern peoples has to be part of a peace settlement . 
It is a classic example of a dictatorship which is more interested in foreign adventures than in the well-being of its own subjects . 
The final point I would like to make concerns sanctions . 
The European Union and its Member States are not very good at applying sanctions . 
We have to say to the Sudanese that this will continue to be the situation of the European Union collectively and severally through its Member States as long as that regime does not respect democracy , civil rights and the right to self-determination . 
In conclusion , I feel that in the longer or even the medium-run we should be optimistic , but meantime , in the present , we have to be very vigilant and very consistent . 
Mr President , I too speak on this particular resolution on Bangladesh and can but confirm what the two previous speakers have said . 
It is yet another difficult human rights situation in the world . 
There is great concern about the Chakma people , the Chittagong Hill Tracts People and the disappearance of Mrs Kalpana Chakma . 
We must hope that by drawing attention to this in the European Parliament and the European Union , the military will desist from some of its operations because , without a doubt , fundamental rights of expression are at risk , there is restriction of movement and cultural rights . 
Mr President , we debate these subjects under the general heading of urgencies and some people would argue that land mines are not exactly an urgent problem because they will be with us for many years . 
I take the opposite view because , for somebody who goes out to the fields in Mozambique or goes outside the village in Cambodia , it is an urgent matter of survival . 
Will they survive that day ? 
It has to have the same sort of force as the crusade against nuclear weapons . 
We can not live with land mines because they destroy and maim in the most horrible fashion the innocent civilians they target . 
I have great pleasure in supporting this resolution . 
Madam President , I am glad we are having this debate , even if it is on a Friday . 
I took this initiative in the first place to bring to the attention of Parliament the grave situation affecting the salmon producers of Scotland . 
But we should not have had to have this debate at all and we have to understand why this has been necessary . 
When we had the Fisheries Council , the Council of Ministers discussed the issue under ` Any other business ' and when it came to the turn of the United Kingdom to say something , to take some action , it was like the famous detective story called ` The Dog That Did Not Bark In The Night ' . 
The surprise was that the dog was there and did not bark . 
This was the fault of the UK Government which , when people were expecting it to stand up for the Scottish salmon industry , failed to take the legal action . 
In other words , the dog did not use its teeth in this context to force the Commission into considering quantitative restrictions . 
The industry was expecting that . 
There was even a Scottish Minister sitting there , but no action was taken . 
So it is now up to the European Parliament 's Fisheries Committee to step in to fill this breach . 
What exactly are we asking for and what can we expect ? 
The minimum import price is not a very good instrument as we know from the past , but it is the only one that can be implemented immediately . 
With the threat of an antidumping case hanging over the Norwegians , there is a good chance that they will behave themselves rather better in the run-up to this Christmas than they did last time . 
But then I am almost convinced that we have to follow up with quantitative restrictions . 
We have to ask ourselves the political point , which is asked constantly and I was even asked it by French television yesterday : Why is it that the Norwegians outside the European Union are managing to do better with salmon production than the Scots and the Irish who are within ? 
That is why this action is absolutely imperative , necessary and urgent . 
Firstly , is the United Kingdom one of the Member States which has failed to provide the information she is looking for ? 
Secondly , she has not really said whether the Commission will move for minimum import prices , which is what the resolution calls for . 
Mr President , like you , I have absolutely no objection to cameramen or whoever photographing me openly signing in . 
I am encouraged by that answer to the extent that I understand it . 
I hope that what the Commission is working towards is a new definition of guest beers which will amount to the same thing and will ensure that real ale is still sold in British pubs as a guest beer . 
Certainly if the guest beer provision is totally removed , the result will be less choice all round rather than greater opportunities for continental breweries to export to Britain . 
Mr President , consumers are extremely anxious about the food that they are being presented with in the shops . 
In particular , they are very disturbed that soya bean protein from genetically modified plants is likely to become part of dozens of products they buy without any labelling whatsoever . 
There are many arguments about whether or not these new genetically modified foods are desirable or necessary . 
Some people are concerned about safety for our environment , some about health risks and whether scientists really know what they are letting us in for . 
Some of the arguments about ethics and food safety have already been debated here in the passage through this House of the novel foods directive . 
People have grave concerns at the moment because in the absence of the novel foods directive - which is not yet in place - we do not yet have a product-approval system of sufficient standing to deal with these products . 
Quite frankly , it is astonishing that the Commission has seen fit to licence the imports of Monsanto soya beans so quickly , when the tests they have passed in the USA have been minimal . 
Now we hear from the press that the Commission is about to approve a controversial strain of genetically modified maize , developed by Ciba Geigy , apparently to defuse a potential transatlantic trade war . 
The production and marketing of these new products , which are at least , to some extent , being developed to be more resistant to herbicides - therefore encouraging even more use of dangerous herbicides in farming - is potentially massively dangerous to biodiversity . 
Have we not seen enough damage from pesticides ? 
Has nobody in the Commission read Rachel Carson 's The Silent Spring ? 
Why the haste ? 
Why do we have to bend over backwards in the face of serious consumer disquiet to licence these products just because they are there and just because industry is piling on the pressure ? 
I refer to the questions tabled by the PSE Group and I hope the Commission has some real answers . 
I have the greatest sympathy with the position of the Commission today on many counts . 
We have handled our business very badly in Parliament . 
But the bottom line in all this has to be labelling . 
The most important thing is that people absolutely must have the right to know and to make their own choice about the food they eat . 
How can the Commission even think about allowing these controversial products on the market without clear labelling information for consumers as to what they are ? 
I must ask the Commission to reconsider its actions , take a closer look at all these products from every possible angle and ensure that all genetically modified food products are clearly labelled for the consumer from now on . 
Mr President , I would like to join in the congratulations to Mr W.G. van Velzen on his excellent report and his speech introducing this debate . 
I think it is encouraging to find so much consensus around the House on the objectives that we have set ourselves of improving the commitment of the European Union to sustainable development and to a more acceptable method of dealing with the energy needs of the future . 
That was a matter of great regret to myself and to many others . 
So I hope that from now on we will make a resolution to practice what we preach , in particular in two directions . 
The commitment to renewable energy is emphasized in several excellent sections in the report : the renewable energy section in paragraph 2 of Mr van Velzen 's report , the research and development section ( particularly paragraph 32 ) and also the regional policy section ( paragraphs 37 and 39 ) . 
Not only is there , as Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel said , the problem of long-term nuclear waste , but I also believe that fundamentally this is a subsidized section which has no justification . 
So how do we match the needs to decommission and get rid of the nuclear programme with the need for sustainable development ? 
I believe this can be done . 
It could be done , if you take , for example , the Dounreay Nuclear Plant in the north of Scotland , by a wholesale conversion of the energies of the scientists from the nuclear industry into renewables . 
This could be done right through Europe and in many other places . 
I commend this to the Commission as a conversion programme which would give the right signals to our citizens . 
Mr President , I am very pleased this debate is happening . 
As everybody knows the question of animal transportation was a matter of great concern throughout the European Union and when the new rules were agreed last year there was some hope that some of the worst aspects of the trade would be ended . 
When the Council agreed the new transport rules in June 1995 reference was made to the importance of extra veterinary inspectors to be taken on by the Commission to enforce the directive . 
The Commission answered that there were no available resources and no plans to recruit any more inspectors , which appears still to be the case . 
The Council simply passed the buck back to the Commission and its answer showed a total indifference to the problem and no concern at all to ensure that EU law is enforced . 
He is a fairly busy man and it is no wonder that it continues to be flouted . 
Elsewhere the situation is even worse . 
For instance the directive on standards of battery hens requires the Commission to carry out checks in the Member States . 
That directive was passed in 1988 and so far not one inspection has been carried out . 
Frankly , if the Commission is not prepared to enforce EU law , and the Council apparently does not care , we are wasting our time here . 
I was encouraged by Mrs Bonino 's reply to the extent that the Commission is continuing to take steps to try to ensure that the directive is enforced even if without extra veterinary inspectors . 
I think veterinary inspectors must be appointed if we are to take this seriously . 
I also hope that the Commission will appoint responsible NGOs in the Member States to enforce the law if it can not do so itself . 
Mr President , the sanctions which are to be renewed by the General Affairs Council on 4 December are , I understand , merely to be adopted under the written procedure . 
Surely this act , which aroused such condemnation - I refer to the killing of Ken Saro Wiwa and eight other Ogoni people - merits a proper debate in the Council of Ministers . 
I call on the Commission to report to Parliament - it may be Mrs Bonino will do so shortly - on the situation in Nigeria over the past year and on the prospects for democracy . 
Ideally such a statement should be ready for the General Affairs Council meeting on 4 December . 
The fact is that they seem to be relatively weak for the situation in the case of the arms embargo which was applied . 
How far has the embargo been successful ? 
Would it not be better , as stated in the resolution , to some extent to make part of the arms embargo retrospective ? 
Mr President , first of all I should like to say to Commissioner Bonino how much we appreciate the way in which she has spoken out very recently on the tragedy unfolding in Zaire . 
I hope that the same sort of note can be struck on Nigeria . 
Without this toleration the regime would have fallen by now , I am quite convinced . 
I think the Council has a great opportunity , as Mr Moorhouse said , to address this challenge at its next meeting and ensure that Europe can stand for something democratic and freedom-loving in the world . 
Mr President , I am indeed sad to be speaking yet again about human rights violations and inhuman behaviour in China . 
The conviction of Mr Wang Dan is but one further instance and illustration of the gulf between our democratic societies and the punitive and repressive regime that exists in China . 
There is an appeal due to be heard tomorrow we understand , but I doubt that the harsh sentence will be overturned . 
In fact I am inclined to be rather cynical about the timing of this appeal . 
I was glad to see the Council of Ministers ' statement - quite a strong one - condemning this act on 5 November , just a few days ago . 
Otherwise the hard fact is that the Chinese are thumbing their noses at us . 
Instead we are addressed in an arrogant and desultory manner with no attempt by the Chinese to take on board any of the very valid points being made by Members of this Parliament . 
Having said that , I am sure that we have all decided that the isolation of China is no solution . 
But EU representatives and heads of state are , in my opinion , not making it sufficiently clear to the Chinese that we really can not tolerate this sort of behaviour . 
In conclusion , if China truly wishes to assume its place in the international community it must first start to act according to the basic principles of that community by putting into place the rule of order , democracy and respect for human rights . 
It is about time that our leaders in the European Union make this clear at every opportunity . 
Mr President , I am just back from Copenhagen , where I had the opportunity to talk to some Latvians . 
One of the issues we talked about was the necessity to have the right kind of balance for the future . 
So , if we see that as a danger , we should also see the experience of the Baltic as a model for the future development of a common fisheries policy . 
As Mr von Habsburg and Mr Sindal said , self-management is the key and decentralized management , with conservation in mind . 
We should not impose some grandiose scheme on people in a false desire to impose something European on people who do not want it . 
Let us make it cooperative and let us get the fishing communities fully engaged in this enterprise . 
Mr President , this is one of these very sensitive questions in some parts of Europe and the further north you go the more sensitive it becomes . 
Ironically , not where Santa Claus lives right up in the Arctic Circle but in the intermediate zone and Scotland in particular , and especially in the islands like Shetland and the Western Isles , this has become a very hot potato indeed . 
It has all been swallowed up in the feeling that somehow Brussels is going to dictate to us and we are going to have one time-zone imposed on . 
So I am delighted to see that on this occasion Brussels is actually being very sympathetic and sensible and not trying to impose a single zone from the Canary Islands across to Finland . 
What is proposed is a very sensible measure that the change-over from summer-time to winter-time will be the same throughout Europe , so you do not have the nonsense of a few weeks in which the time-tables are different in a different time zone . 
It is good to see Brussels being sympathetic and I think this Parliament will support it . 
There are sensible opt-outs for Guyana , the Canary Isles and so on and we should support this unreservedly . 
Mr President , I am going to try to reflect my group 's views on a Citizen 's Europe and in particular to single out elements of the EPP motion for a resolution on 1996 and 1997 . 
President Santer knows full well that we are more than ready to support most aspects of his work and we appreciate the great efforts he is making to put order into the work of the Commission . 
We are living in a period when all of us are involved in this great venture , both at European level and in Member States , and we need to implement to the full the legislation we have adopted here in this House and by the Council . 
That said , in the words of our own resolution , we consider that the Commission has been too passive in the field of justice and home affairs and we regret in particular that not one of the proposals in the Commission 's 1996 work programme has apparently been forwarded to Parliament . 
Let me single out - but in no particular order - a few of the subjects that we , the EPP Group , have addressed in recent months . 
Firstly , there is the field of asylum policy . 
In one Member State , for instance , there are some 60 , 000 people from outside the Union applying for asylum each year whose applications are still pending and of those - or at least those who have been admitted in the past - maybe only 5 or 10 % , possibly as high as 13 % , are finally admitted . 
Whether one agrees or not with the criteria adopted , the fact is that Europe is a Mecca for at least tens of thousands of people , and their hopes and aspirations may well conflict with the needs of our own populations . 
Then again , turning to our resolution once more , we have failed to promote harmonization in the use of lists of safe third countries of origin and lists of safe third countries , and it is at least questionable whether Member States are acting in their mutual interest . 
I turn now to a further issue and that is the whole question of child abuse and child abduction , to which we are giving great thought . 
My colleague Mary Banotti - but not only her - is doing great work in this area . 
But while it may be the prime responsibility of Member States , is there no contribution that we can make here at European level ? 
The horrors of the situation speak for themselves and call for some concerted action . 
Again , as regards child abduction , all of us who have constituencies - as in the UK - are likely to have to face the anguish of one or other parent trying to retrieve their child from another country , sometimes against near impossible odds . 
That , surely , is a field for closer cooperation . 
I leave the issue there . 
There are so many other issues which one could discuss but I look forward very much to hearing the President 's response . 
I agree entirely with the Commissioner that it is deplorable that the Commission has not been given the extra inspectors it needs . 
But , presumably , one way round this is to allow responsible NGOs to monitor whether Member States are enforcing the rules . 
This was raised last month in Question Time by Mrs Bonino and , as I recall , Mrs Bonino said that Member States themselves could delegate authority to NGOs but that the Commission would not require them to do so . 
If the Commission is looking into allegations made in television programmes , it could equally look into any allegations of infringements of the rules made by NGOs operating in the Member States . 
Presumably , if you can not get the extra veterinary inspectors - and there are plenty of people around Europe willing to carry out the inspections themselves , including very responsible bodies - the Commission should require Member States to take note of those inspections . 
Mr President , if anyone ever doubted that a small Member State of the European Union could perform a world-class act then the Irish presidency has dispelled that doubt . 
The Irish Government has performed what many people thought was an impossible task : they have produced a draft treaty in time for the Dublin II summit meeting this weekend . 
Not only have they produced a draft paper , but it is lucid , persuasive and has a clear eye to making the case for closer European integration in a language and style which is accessible to and has resonance for the peoples of the European Union . 
My group congratulates the Irish presidency on its very significant efforts . 
This Parliament must now spend some time examining and analysing the 140 pages which make up the draft proposals , which will be formally presented to our government leaders on Friday , taking account , of course , of the outcome of that meeting . 
Having welcomed the publication of the draft , can I urge subsequent presidencies to continue the most appealing form in which it is presented ? 
The Irish presidency has clearly learned the lessons of the débacle of the public debate on the Maastricht Treaty . 
With each suggested change in the Treaty there is a justification written by way of introduction and , above all , written in plain , easy-to-understand language . 
My group wants , as well , to welcome the positive elements in the draft proposal . 
We specifically draw attention to the inclusion of an employment chapter which aims to give the same political priority to the issue of job creation in the European Treaty , as the Maastricht Treaty gave to EMU and a single currency . 
But we are encouraged that the concept of the separate chapter on employment is clearly established and enjoying overwhelming majority support . 
This Parliament has led the campaign against the resurgence of racism and anti-semitism . 
It would be a most powerful first positive message for reform of the Treaty if the Dublin II summit were to reach immediate agreement on this new competence , designed to demonstrate that our Europe respects citizens or residents whether white or black , Christian , Jew or Muslim . 
We have learnt the lessons of our history and we believe all decent-thinking people in Europe share that desire for tolerance with us . 
Mr President-in-Office , I am sure you would expect us , in this House , to express a balanced view of the draft proposals , and I will not disappoint you . 
In expressing considerable criticism of what is not in the draft , I want to make clear that this is not to denigrate the considerable feat of actually producing it . 
It is rather in sadness as we recognize that , despite the energy which has gone into it , the draft treaty in omission demonstrates the difficulties with which the Union is faced . 
First and foremost , my group sincerely regrets that there is no mention of institutional reforms in any depth , so necessary to make the Union work more effectively and efficiently . 
What is it that has determined the need for this IGC ? 
It is not some overweening urge to put each country through a further tortuous debate on just where Europe is going , not a slavish devotion to an unthinking dash to Euro-federalism , as Euro-sceptics would have us believe , but rather , the absolute imperative to enlarge the Union to bring in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe , Cyprus and ultimately the Baltic States . 
It is nothing short of the fundamental bedrock underlying the lives of millions of our people ; that is , peace and stability on our continent . 
That the Council is unable to demonstrate any serious degree of consensus on this issue nine months after the opening of the IGC is a cause of great concern . 
On issues of practical importance to our citizens there is scant mention : the environment , public services , the real development of European citizenship and greater openness and transparency . 
We suspect that the ambiguity which currently blights the second and third pillars in terms of democratic accountability will be increased rather than lessened by proposals in the draft paper . 
We hope that at Dublin our governments can come together and seek a higher level of ambition for the European Union and its future . 
Mr President , Mr Santer has just made a very important statement . 
I want to be absolutely clear about what he means because it will have an impact on the vote tomorrow on the budget . 
He knows it , that is why he has made it . 
I want to be clear for my Group as to what he means . 
Can he say to us that what he has just said means categorically that if Members of this Parliament disagree with projects put forward by the Commission on Turkey , the Commission will withdraw those projects ? 
` Yes ' or ` No ' - that is what we need to know . 
Mr President , I am very grateful to Mr Santer repeating what he said in the Conference of Presidents . 
He will also know that his fellow Commissioner , Mr Van den Broek , made it categorically clear he would not withdraw the proposals if this Parliament disagreed . 
That is why we need clarity and that is why I am asking for it from Mr Santer . 
I congratulate the rapporteur most sincerely on her exhaustive study . 
Those of us who are on the Subcommittee on Human Rights and fully involved in the debates on urgencies know full well the magnitude of our task . 
Sadly we are inundated with reports of criminal acts perpetrated by governments and those acting under them . 
I often quote the example of Syria where a few years ago we cut off development aid for a couple of years . 
I have little doubt that the releases of political prisoners from Syrian prisons were due to the economic clout we exerted at that time . 
The question is how we are going to carry our work forward . 
Mrs Lalumière has two particular proposals to make , one via legal channels and the other the political approach . 
Understandably she draws on her experience in the Council of Europe and that may well be a path to follow and will need to be explored further . 
The political approach is , as she says , plagued with difficulties but deserves further consideration . 
So , at least we can say that human rights are emerging as a major issue , and we must build on that . 
Happily , as the European Parliament we have the freedom of action needed , and we must continue our role of speaking out against what is unacceptable . 
Mr President , I wanted to make a comment on the minutes . 
I have a correction which I think concerns the item you wanted to take , namely Item 2 of the minutes of yesterday - the Izquierdo Collado report . 
I presume this should be the Izquierdo Rojo report . 
Secondly the last sentence of that paragraph says that the report had been due to be taken on Friday . 
What I would like to suggest is that we take the speaking time from Friday and add it to the speaking time on the fisheries debate today . 
This is an extremely important subject and although Members are more interested in Christmas festivities the fishermen of Europe are waiting for 1 January . 
I would ask for support to have an hour added to the debate on fisheries so that we can do justice to this extremely important subject . 
Mr President , I think this is an extremely important vote . 
I hope the outside world will be aware that some people on the right in this House , under intense pressure from people outside this institution , particularly from some elements of the Commission , ... 
... have turned their backs on the people fighting for democracy and human rights in Turkey ! 
Mr President , no week passes without my office receiving fresh news from Turkey about infringements of human or civic rights in that country . 
It is a sad and disturbing feature of our political life which we have learned to live with . 
Therefore , however much the government of Turkey may resent it , a resolution of the kind we are debating here today is quite unavoidable . 
It would not have been so a few years ago , but today , with the spread of television and instant communication , we are living in a new world . 
The way in which a government treats its citizens is a matter of legitimate public and international concern . 
I do not think anybody in this House would see it otherwise . 
The question is whether we support Mrs d'Ancona 's position and say : yes , let us investigate and let us express the strength of opinion , but let us not prejudge . 
For example , Mr Posselt - who was quite right in saying that we should not mix up apples and pears - nevertheless made allegations about all the committees in the Slovak Parliament being controlled by the government , with no opposition members . 
That is a change which we have already managed to achieve : the opposition is now on all these committees . 
So it is sometimes counterproductive to tar everybody with the same brush , because then there is resentment in Bratislava , rightly , of the ignorance on which some of these assertions are based . 
I do not want Parliament to adopt resolutions based on either ignorance or unsubstantiated assertions . 
That is why , I understand , the Socialist Group will abstain on this matter , and so will we . 
We want to have a proper , positive dialogue with Slovakia , because we want them in the European Union , and we do not want them to be cast out as pariahs . 
Mr President , I rise on behalf of the Socialist Group to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of this House . 
You take on the presidency at a moment of great responsibility , bearing in mind what lies before us in the European Union in the coming years . 
You have to follow a very illustrious act on the part of my very good colleague Klaus Hänsch . 
I was asked just now by the media what I expect of the President of this Parliament . 
I would like to repeat what I said because I think you will be able to fulfil those expectations in great measure and we on this side of the House look forward to that . 
I also said that we expect the President of this House to pursue the demands of this House with great vigour , particularly in the light of the Intergovernmental Conference . 
Again , we know and expect that you will do so . 
Thirdly , my third expectation of a President of this House is that he make this Parliament more relevant and more accessible to the people of the European Union , making it more user-friendly and more people-friendly . 
We know and expect that you will do that . 
You have our best wishes and , where you act in accordance with those three requests , which I know you will do , you will have our absolute support . 
We hope and expect that , in carrying out that duty , you will feel fulfilled and gratified in the post you have taken on . 
Mr President , we wish you well . 
Mr President , in view of some of the speeches we have heard here this morning I feel it is important to rise again because people listening in the gallery and the media have heard some very strange interpretations of representative democracy here this morning . 
I must say to you that through their acceptance of the use of the d'Hondt system and other concessions they voluntarily make to the smaller groups in this House , the two big groups of this House are ... 
( Heckling ) We will wait for the barracking to stop . 
The two large groups in this House already make considerable concessions to the smaller groups . 
I was disappointed that in the speeches by the other group leaders there was no recognition of that fact , after all the discussions we have gone through in the last few weeks . 
I would like to conclude by saying to Mr Pasty in particular that when he gave the figures , which were quite misleading , he obviously had not looked at the nominations that have come forward , particularly from my group , because he would have noticed that of the three places for quaestor which we hold we have ceded one to a smaller group in this House and will be supporting a candidate from the GUE . 
I will tell you as well that when you talk of small delegations , my group is nominating a Member from a four-person Finnish delegation in my group as a quaestor of this House . 
So when he says smaller delegations inside the big groups are being denied their rights , he is quite wrong . 
I would say to you , colleagues , that we are nominating a Finn as well as another Member for a quaestorship in this House . 
I assume from what Mr Pasty has said in support of small delegations that he and his group will support our Finn for quaestorship . 
Mr President , can I remind you that in December a Member of this House was seen to have - and indeed admitted to this House that he had - voted twice in one of the votes , using the card of another Member of this House . 
You will know that , after discussion in this House , that issue , which is a serious breach of conduct , was referred to the Bureau of Parliament . 
I ask you , please , to report on what the Bureau of this Parliament decided to do about that gross breach of conduct in this House . 
This decision of the Bureau raises several issues . 
Firstly , it seems to me , in the light of the Bureau 's interpretation of these actions , that it is clear that the President in the Chair at the time acted incorrectly in interpreting the Rules , because what should have happened for a gross breach of conduct was that the Member should have been excluded from the House at that moment . 
As a result of referring it back to the Bureau , and the Bureau then saying that it can not act retroactively , it is clear that exclusion is impossible because of an incorrect interpretation by the President in the Chair at the time . 
That is very much to be regretted and , from my group 's point of view , no matter where in this House a Member who cheats in this way sits - whether it be on the left or on the right - in future my group will be asking for immediate exclusion of that Member at the time that the incident occurs . 
Nothing else will satisfy us . 
Secondly , I would ask you to confirm that the letter was sent to the Member concerned and to read to this House that letter so that everyone is aware of exactly what has been said on behalf of this Parliament to a Member who engaged in a breach of conduct in this House . 
Mr President , I am delighted you are going to read the letter . 
The Bureau can then deal with the consequences . 
Mr President , I should like to make it absolutely clear that I do not challenge the action or the decision made by Mrs Fontaine in the Chair . 
I may disagree with her interpretation but I do not challenge that she acted according to the Rules and I recognize Mr Anastassopoulos ' heroic defence of his colleague in the Bureau . 
I have no challenge to Mrs Fontaine even though I may disagree with her interpretation . 
However , I am appalled at the letter from Mr Pasty which you read . 
Let us be clear that what happened in this House was seen by many Members of this House . 
It is not something which took place in a private room where there could be different interpretations of what happened . 
No one can vote in his own place and in someone else 's and do it accidentally ! 
This is completely unacceptable , Mr President . 
There has been a clear breach of the Rules . 
Your integrity as President and our integrity as Members are at stake . 
Mr President , on behalf of the Socialist Group , I wish to welcome the Prime Minister of Ireland , John Bruton , to this House today and take the opportunity of both thanking and congratulating him on the excellent work of the Irish Government during the six months it held the presidency of the European Union . 
Ireland took over the presidency at a crucial time when the intergovernmental process was in the doldrums , when a concerted effort was needed to try to re-establish its momentum . 
Whilst my group may have very many criticisms of the draft treaty which came out of the Dublin II summit - and many of these will be aired by my group 's specialists later in this debate - there is little doubt that the Irish commitment to and success in producing a draft Treaty covering many of the vital areas under consideration was a very considerable feat , especially given the very real differences which exist between the Member States of the Union on sensitive issues such as : flexibility and qualified majority voting ; employment and the social dimension : the third pillar and the fight against drugs ; international crime and terrorism ; the development of a common foreign and security policy ; and enlargement of the Union and much , much more . 
Ireland also took over the presidency at a time when the timetable for economic and monetary union demanded action , a time when the concept of EMU was under attack in many Member States and when it would have been simpler and much more comfortable simply to ease off the throttle and wait for the following presidencies to take up the challenge . 
I pay tribute to the work of Mr Mitchell , who is here this morning , in that respect . 
The presidency also met with the committees and political groups in this Parliament , while of course governing Ireland and engaging in the tortuous process of seeking real peace and reconciliation in Northern Ireland . 
Perhaps it is to Ireland and its buoyant economy , its expanding potential and its burgeoning confidence that we should look when we ask ourselves why one of the Union 's smallest countries should have performed so well in the presidency of the Union . 
Unlike its big neighbour , Ireland 's government - and when we listen to Mr Bruton this morning we understand why - understands the European perspective . 
I want to turn my attention for a moment to the foreign policy agenda of the Union in the past six months . 
Ireland has exercised a measured and thoughtful role in this most difficult of areas as well . 
In this Parliament we have congratulated Foreign Minister Dick Spring for his intelligent and sensitive handling of Europe 's role in the Middle East peace process . 
Once again in contrast to some of the Heads of State in the Union , the Irish presidency operated with a maturity that brought credit on the Union and we thank the Prime Minister for that as well . 
As I am sure we all do , I welcome the signing of the Hebron Agreement today . 
Given the present tensions in the Eastern Mediterranean , the opportunity now exists for the Union to demonstrate its facilitating role again by using the arena of the Mediterranean Conference to bring together all those involved in the current tension - Turkey , Greece and Cyprus , all involved and committed to the Mediterranean process . 
We should be pursuing the item which has been on the agenda for the last two years of demilitarization on the island of Cyprus with as much strength and vigour as they are now pursuing the arms race in the Eastern Mediterranean . 
We thank the presidency for that . 
Mr President , unlike you I was glad that Mrs Bonino had twenty minutes to talk to us . 
I just wish that I had twenty minutes as well because there are many issues which are very important . 
I want to make some brief points . 
Firstly , the Northern Irish fishermen were compensated by the British Government during the negotiations . 
I should like to know where the fish came from that went to Northern Ireland as part of a political deal which the Conservative Government had to stitch up with the Ulster Unionists . 
Secondly , there are a couple of problems I want to flag up : one is that the salmon importation from Norway is a problem which will not go away . 
I would apportion the blame between the British Government and the Commission for not imposing a minimum import price . 
However , there is a worry that the prices might take a nose dive now . 
I want some reassurance that this will be taken into account . 
Thirdly , the problem of the size of the UK fleet . 
This is a major problem first of all because of flags of convenience - a problem mishandled by the UK in the past - and also because of the failure on the part of the UK to decommission . 
There is a major problem there which I want to flag up . 
I have one or two complimentary things to say . 
It is very good that Mrs Bonino comes to us now after the debacle at the end of December and says : ' Let us now talk seriously about the conservation measures , about MAGP IV ' . 
The things which we knew were not going to be implemented in December we can now discuss in a realistic way and we have time for a constructive dialogue which will take into account the views of the fishing sector . 
I am glad also that the small-scale coastal fishing sector has been exempted from satellite monitoring . 
That is very important both symbolically and in practice . 
That is the way we have to go in the future ; giving that sector the priority . 
Finally , I turn to the promise that there will be compensation through accompanying measures for any losses which are inflicted on the fisheries sector . 
For a long time the farming sector has expected this as of right and the fishing sector has had to survive somehow . 
I am glad to hear that this is built into the thinking and we will be looking for further specifications along those lines . 
Mr President , just one very minor request . 
So I would ask you to see if you could delay that deadline until at least 8.30 p.m. tomorrow evening . 
I know it is very tight for your services and I apologise for that . 
But it is not appropriate for us to set the deadline for the resolution before the debate and before the President of the Commission has had an opportunity to respond . 
Mr President , I ask you to refer to the services , please . 
Today 's session news - the Strasbourg Notebook - about yesterday 's opening session absolutely gives the wrong impression . 
It is absolutely wrong on what happened yesterday regarding the request to change the time of the vote on the BSE motion of censure . 
It states that Pauline Green , London North PSE , requested the House to delay the vote on the motions for resolution scheduled for voting on Wednesday at 12 noon . 
That is absolutely wrong . 
I did nothing of the sort . 
It misleads the media and the outside world . 
On behalf of my group could you please get it withdrawn immediately . 
Mr President , the Socialist Group welcomes and endorses the report and recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into BSE . 
This Parliament is today demonstrating that we take our role of monitoring and controlling the unelected institutions of the European Union very seriously . 
This is the first time that the powers given to us in the Maastricht Treaty to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration under the auspices of a committee of inquiry have been used . 
I wish to make clear that for my group at all times the paramount concern has been the health of the people of the European Union . 
The work of the committee of inquiry has demonstrated unequivocally that the blame for the BSE crisis lies fairly and squarely on the shoulders of the current British Government . 
It was its single-minded , blind , ideological commitment to deregulation that led to a catalogue of disastrous decisions on which BSE evolved . 
( Applause ) My group has long believed that a simple commitment to deregulation is as outmoded and dangerous a concept as is a simple commitment to regulation . 
What is needed is appropriate regulation : regulation to protect the health of the public and regulation to secure the safety of consumers is , in our view , necessary in a single market . 
The BSE tragedy is a sad and dramatic example of what can happen when the health of the public and the safety of consumers is sacrificed on the altar of business expediency and profit-enhancement . 
This really was negligence of the worst sort . 
I am confident that all decent-thinking British people know that if such games had been played with their health and safety by any other government in the European Union they would be unforgiving . 
The British tabloid media would do well to ponder on that fact before they indulge in any further xenophobia on this issue . 
( Applause ) The sight last night of the British Minister of Agriculture , Mr Douglas Hogg , being saved from a motion of no confidence in the House of Commons on his mishandling of the BSE crisis by a disreputable political fix with the Ulster Unionist Party really beggars belief ! 
If , as we are assured , beef from Northern Ireland and other specified herds in Britain has not been infected in the same way as other beef in Britain , why was it not acknowledged months ago , thereby saving Northern Irish farmers from the catastrophic financial consequences of recent months ? 
Why is it that the British Government only agrees to pursue so-called special measures when it faces a motion of no confidence in the House of Commons ? 
It is this kind of cynical , opportunist behaviour which destroys confidence in Britain and the rest of Europe and demonstrates that the British Government does not put health and consumer safety - let alone economic good sense - at the top of its agenda . 
Mr Douglas Hogg , the hapless Agriculture Minister , refused to come and give evidence to our committee of inquiry , despite the fact that all the governments in the Union - including the British Government - had given an undertaking that they would support the work of Parliament 's committee of inquiry . 
Last night in the House of Commons Mr Hogg said that it would be an abnegation of British sovereignty for him to give evidence to us here . 
He is one of those who argues that sovereignty in a democracy rests in its parliament . 
I am one of those who believes that sovereignty resides in the hands of the people . 
( Applause ) However , the Council can not hide from criticism in this affair . 
It succumbed to pressure from the British Government ; it watered down Commission proposals in the Agriculture Council and generally used the elite club of the Council to look after national interests rather than those of the people of the Union . 
It reinforces the view of my group that the Council , when acting as a corporate body , hides behind the members ' individual democratic legitimacy and acts together in a secretive and unacceptable way . 
I want to say now to the President of the Commission that this was a disaster waiting to happen . 
The European Commission is culpable : it was not as if the Commission had not been warned that its structures and decisionmaking on food safety and public health were seriously flawed . 
As long ago as 1989 in the Raftery report this Parliament stated : ' If we want a genuine single market for food then we must establish a genuine , independent , strong and open regulatory body which will be seen to put the interests of consumers above those of producers , processors , distributors and the catering industry . ' 
Yet again , in March 1992 , in my report on the reform of the Scientific Committee for Food this Parliament said : ' The process of achieving a satisfactory scientific base for matters relating to food safety will be judged by Europe 's consumers according to whether it is sufficiently independent , transparent and effective . ' 
In that report Parliament demanded a single unit in the European Commission to deal with food under the auspices of the consumer policy service , a common food policy , an independent scientific committee for food , proper consumer representation on that committee , transparency in the appointments made to the committee and proper consideration of the public interest in areas of food and consumer safety . 
How much more could this Parliament have done to demonstrate that European decision-making in food safety was in a mess ? 
The litany of shambolic decision-making , lack of accountability and evasiveness shown by the Commission and its officials throughout the BSE saga has left the Commission weakened and vulnerable . 
So , sadly , it has taken a crisis of this magnitude to create the conditions for change . 
If the President of the Commission is to be believed , then change we shall have , and we welcome his statement . 
If the reforms are not genuine , appropriate or fast enough to deal with the recommendations of the committee of inquiry , then my group will join with others in tabling a motion of censure on the Commission at an appropriate time in the months before or during November of this year . 
Finally , my group will not support the motion of censure on the European Commission before this House today . 
We do not consider it an effective political strategy to censure this Commission before it has had the opportunity to put its own house in order . 
We are interested in a serious attempt to reform in the interests of public health . 
Furthermore , we are convinced that a successful motion of censure at this stage would simply lead to an institutional crisis which would last for months and not do one single thing to strengthen public health or consumer protection at European level . 
( Applause ) There are those who consider that the publicity and chaos which would accompany the dismissal of the Commission would somehow cleanse the system . 
My group does not believe that to be the case . 
The committee of inquiry identified the faults and the reforms necessary to end those faults . 
So the British Prime Minister considers the report we are discussing this afternoon to be a load of rubbish . 
When Mr Nicholson accuses me of making this partypolitical , perhaps everybody can now understand why . 
First of all , we have Mr Hogg who has boycotted the Committee of Inquiry set up by this Parliament . 
He is matched by Michael Forsyth , the Minister responsible for Scotland , who has been boycotting Brussels for many months . 
His only contribution was to try to ban the flying of the European flag in Scotland on ` Peace in Europe ' day . 
These are the people that are asking us to blame the Commission and not them . 
Yesterday , Mr Hogg said , and I quote : ' There is a strong case for Northern Ireland . 
The case is very powerful and I will urge the Commission accordingly ' . 
On the same day , Lord Lindsay , his junior Minister was saying in Brussels : ' I categorically deny that there has been any special deal for Northern Ireland ' . 
We hear today , on the grapevine , that # 9.4 million is being spent in Northern Ireland . 
I would like some confirmation , if the Commission has it , of these details . 
Five months ago , the same Lord Lindsay had the effrontery to tell the Scottish farmers that Scotland can lead the UK out of the beef export ban . 
Such irresponsibility and contradiction has to be recorded in the annals and in the record of this House . 
What concerns me most is who pays the price for this incompetence ? 
It is , of course , the beef exporting farmer that I represent in Aberdeenshire and Angus and also the Northern Ireland farmers . 
They are being made the scapegoats and it is time we pinned that blame where it belongs . 
Mr President , I too was very pleased with the Commissioner 's answer . 
On a slightly broader point , I wonder if he could say what progress , if any , has been made in bringing professional bodies in other areas together to persuade them to recognize qualifications in each of the Member States . 
In particular , there seems to be a problem with university degrees . 
Professional bodies , say in the United Kingdom , recognize that a degree in law from a British university goes some way to meeting the professional qualifications for a lawyer but not necessarily a degree in law from a French university . 
Perhaps law is not the best example because of the different legal systems . 
But it might be the same in architecture or any other profession . 
Clearly if the same rights of accreditation are not universal throughout the European Union , this does amount to a restriction on the mobility of labour and harms the single market . 
If the rapporteur is here , are we to understand that he is not going to be here for the voting session ? 
He could be here and his report could be voted then as anybody else 's would be if it could not be dealt with earlier . 
This is a very important declaration that we are being asked to support . 
Parliament has an honourable record in supporting the rights of the aboriginal peoples who can only too easily be forgotten because they have no states to protect them . 
Often , even the right to the land they live on is challenged by the states that surround them . 
It will give a sign of encouragement to peoples whose survival is at risk . 
So I urge you to support the entire resolution and , in particular , to give ringing endorsement to paragraph 8 . 
I ask the Commission to take this forward with our support to the United Nations . 
Mr President , I would endorse the remarks of the previous speaker . 
What we are confronting is the difficulty of balancing the rights of the various communities who used to form part of Yugoslavia . 
In Mostar , we have the Croat and Muslim sides and it seems to me that the only way we can get some kind of solution is to have a kind of de facto federation of Mostar on both sides of the Neretva river . 
Likewise , the delicate situation in Brcko I think may be resolved by a similar compromise . 
Here , at least , we have the Dayton solution to allow the situation to stay as it is for at least one year under Serb control . 
At this stage , in both cases , we have to be patient and ask the people on the ground to be patient and to let the situation settle down a little , and after a year we will review it . 
Likewise , the position in Kosovo at the moment is potentially dangerous . 
We have to ask that the rights of Albanian speakers are fully respected in that area so we do not create a new flashpoint just when things are settling down elsewhere . 
Mr President , as the Commission has got nowhere with these further negotiations , it has manoeuvred itself into an utterly indefensible position on the leghold trap regulation . 
Not only has it defied Parliament but it has also defied the Council of Ministers which is truly breathtaking . 
In the interest of unfettered free trade , the Commission seriously expects the European Union to lie down and effectively chew off its own leg just as 600 000 fur-bearing animals caught in these barbaric legholds do every year in Canada so that fashionable women in Europe can wear fur coats , and the fur trade and the Canadian Government can continue to make millions of dollars . 
These are the traps that the Canadian Government does not agree are cruel . 
It all started with the tuna/dolphin issue when trade won over environmental needs . 
Now the Commission is prepared to sacrifice what some may feel is the soft option - furry animals - both on leghold traps and in the cosmetic industry , in the hope of winning free trade trade-offs . 
Well , it wo n't do ! 
This WTO business is getting completely out of control and so is the Commission . 
The so-called draft agreement on the leghold trap with Canada and Russia represents not so much a compromise but a suicide note . 
For instance , Article 13 says : ' No party may impose trade-restrictive measures on fur and fur products originating from any other party ' . 
That makes a complete mockery of our legislation ! 
Faced with the stubborn refusal of Canada to stop the use of leghold traps , the Commission , ignoring its mandate from its masters in Europe , has simply said : ' O.K. keep on with your cruelty and we will keep buying your furs - everything is fine ! ' 
Furthermore , Article 20 of GATT contains the perfectly adequate defence of an import ban under measures which are acceptable if they are necessary to protect public morals . 
These public morals need protection . 
Civilized nations can not put up with sacrificing public decency and environmental imperatives on the altar of free-trade . 
There have to be some limits and the leghold regulation sets down the limit that we want implemented in this particular case . 
We want a little backbone from the Commission . 
Mr President , I notice there is an item on the agenda relating to the organization of the common market in rice . 
To my knowledge , although it was in the working document , it was never discussed in the Conference of Presidents . 
Frankly , my group is not in favour of placing it on the agenda for this week . 
We would prefer that it was deferred until April . 
So I would ask you to put that to the House , because I think other group leaders will confirm that there was no agreement on the matter in the Conference of Presidents . 
The other item concerns Wednesday evening . 
You will see that one of the last reports on Wednesday evening is the Linkohr report . 
If it is not taken on Wednesday - as you know , things can sometimes crop up - can we be assured that it will be dealt with first thing on Thursday morning , since it must be voted on by lunchtime Thursday ? 
Would the Commissioner agree that things seem to have been moving very slowly on endocrine disruptors , and could she give any dates by which she hopes there might be some results from the research ? 
Could she tell us whether she is planning research simply on substances in isolation , or whether any work at all is going to be done on the cocktail effect , which many people feel is particularly dangerous in this field and about which very little is known ? 
Madam President , on behalf of the Socialist Group I want to welcome the Committee of Inquiry 's report and in particular to extend our congratulations to the rapporteur , Mr Kellett-Bowman , for the excellent work he has done in producing the report before us today , and to Mr Tomlinson for the excellent way in which he has managed the Committee of Inquiry as its chair and for the excellent basis it gives us for the committees of inquiry in the future . 
I should also congratulate the Commissioners , who , at the opening of this discussion , were certainly here in considerable numbers . 
I understand why one or two have drifted away , but I congratulate them on being here . 
Frankly , I have to say that I am disappointed that so very few Members of our House have stayed for what is a hugely important debate . 
Bearing in mind the turnout from the Commission , that needs to be said . 
I can only hope that those Members who are not here are sitting in their rooms reading the four volumes of the Committee of Inquiry 's report : I will be charitable . 
We should also be clear that what the Committee of Inquiry has exposed is the fact that the workings of the Single Market , the flagship policy of the European Union in recent years , have been exploited . 
There is clear evidence in this report of the failure of the Single Market at this moment , and of the need to tighten up . 
But let us remember that this was the first committee of inquiry set up by this House , and that when , at the Conference of Presidents under the chairmanship of Klaus Hänsch when he was still President of this House , we were looking to first use our new rights under the Maastricht Treaty , we wanted to be sure that the first committee of inquiry set up was one that dealt with an issue where we could have a real impact on public consciousness . 
If there is any message that the media of the European Union ought to take away from this , it is that the European Parliament is exposing this fraud perpetrated against the institutions of the Union in terms of its budget and , of course , against the Member States of the European Union ; that we are actually saying now to the governments and the parliaments of the Member States of the Union : ' Please now get on and do what you are supposed to do and follow up this report ' . 
I think it is fair to say that over the time that the Committee of Inquiry sat , the mood certainly changed from one , not of hostility but of a certain degree of scepticism , to one of great support and help from the Commission and from other bodies . 
Mr President , the next vote on our agenda is with regard to the Renault closure . 
In the gallery we have men and women trade unionists who , since yesterday , have been here , coming directly from the demonstration in Paris , representing the 3 , 100 people of the Renault factory in Vilvoorde who will be made unemployed if this decision goes through unreversed . 
I think we should welcome them to the gallery and demonstrate our support for their cause . 
It was nothing other than that . 
I was astounded at the reaction at simply having a delegation from the Renault factory here when we were about to vote on that resolution . 
It seems to me a completely extraordinary and disproportionate reaction . 
However , I must say , Mr President , that , having taken Mr Konrad , whom you did - in other words , one speaker in favour , one speaker against - and then trying to stop the clear disruption in the Gallery , you acted with great dignity , and what followed after that was quite out of order . 
I would be delighted if Mr Pasty brings this up in the Conference of Presidents . 
If he is telling me that he never at any stage engages in politics in this House , I am mightily surprised . 
Let us face it : what is wrong with actually being able to come face to face with people who are being thrown out of work ? 
I do not know whether Mr Spencer finds some embarrassment in the fact that the British Conservatives voted against the resolution . 
Could the Bureau , which is meeting now and will meet later this week , please now give us the status of Parliament 's rules about colleagues being named and asked to leave the Chamber ? 
If colleagues do not leave the Chamber , what status do the rules of this Parliament have any more ? 
This is a clear indication of the deep concern felt about the plight of the people of Tibet , a situation which continues to deteriorate , one regrets to note : so much so that there are real fears that Tibetan culture will become still further eroded . 
One can only conclude that the Chinese aim is to cause the extinction of Tibetan culture . 
The particular significance of this debate is that among other matters it follows the death of Deng Xiaoping and takes place three days after the anniversary of the Chinese occupation of Tibet . 
Along with Olivier Dupuis , I joined 3-4 , 000 demonstrators from all over Europe in Geneva on Sunday to mark the anniversary of the initial occupation of Tibet . 
That was a vivid illustration of the degree of support behind the Tibetan cause , which was prominently featured in the world news . 
But the crucial point of our resolutions , which have a common thread , is that we now have the opportunity , we believe , for fresh negotiations about the future of the Tibetan people , with a possible move towards selfgovernment . 
His Holiness the Dalai Lama has indicated that he would not be pressing for full independence provided that Tibetan culture , the way of life , can be safeguarded . 
So we feel that we should back this new approach and hope that it will really come about . 
I look forward to the reaction of the Commission . 
Mr President , the Group of the Party of European Socialists supports Mrs Dybkjær 's report . 
We are facing the reality that the rich countries have not shown sufficient commitment to the priorities agreed at Rio , either in their own actions or in helping the Third World . 
Species and habitats , especially forests , are still declining across the world and this underlines the pressing need for agreement on a forest convention . 
We should be looking more carefully at the non-compliance issue and the implementation of existing multilateral environment agreements . 
UNGASS is a step on the road to the Climate Change Conference in Kyoto in December and climate change continues to pose an enormous challenge . 
The only way that we can begin to forge a partnership with poor countries is for ourselves to show a good example so that we in Europe should be working towards this reduction by 2005 . 
Vision and leadership are the missing ingredients at the moment to meet the global environmental challenge and we need both of these at both of these conferences . 
As a British Member of this House , and leader of the Socialist Group , can I make it entirely clear that I wrote within days of the BSE Temporary Committee reporting asking that we should deal with the follow-up committee immediately . 
If he is referring to my group , there has been no attempt whatsoever to keep it off the agenda . 
Mr President , I just wanted to raise a point with regard to the statement from the Commission and Council following Mr Alavanos ' report on the Middle East and ask whether the deadlines could be adjusted . 
It is a very sensitive political issue . 
I am sure much will happen in the interval and we should allow ourselves to do something more up-to-date at the time rather than establish a deadline this week . 
It is quite important before we start this debate that we hear from the Commission whether they are still maintaining their position which was indicated at the committee on Monday . 
If I could just refresh the Commission 's memory , the annex to the report says that ` pursuant to Rule 56 ( 1 ) of the Rules of Procedure and following a request from the committee , the Commission representative stated that , for the time being , the Commission services were not working on any new proposal for technical measures ' . 
Now that is the most extraordinary statement in itself , but I want to know if that is the position of the Commission before we embark on this debate . 
Mr President , the reason why this is so important is that , if that is the position , that means that the Commission will force the Council to act by unanimity on these proposals . 
I just think that Parliament should know that . 
I would much rather that this Parliament was discussing the real proposals rather than the ones which have already been unofficially superseded . 
So we have a grave problem here . 
We also had the problem in committee that , because of the so-called compromise that was reached between the two big groups , a whole block of amendments was put through on a ` take it or leave it ' basis . 
My fishermen certainly have grave problems with certain of those amendments , for example , Amendment No 11 , which is quite crucial on the two-net rule and on mesh size . 
This approach to a complex and vital subject is not , to my mind , a democratic and satisfactory way to go about it . 
I have tabled Amendments Nos 76-80 , which I hope the rapporteur and Parliament will support . 
I signal that now as being the position which I would take . 
Let us look now at some of the substantive points . 
Each side tells you stories about the other side . 
Occasionally you can get a fisherman who has been out on a scientific boat for a week - I spoke to one recently in Shetland - and he comes back and tells you that his viewpoint has changed . 
Likewise the viewpoints of the scientists can change if they get together with the fishermen and find out that they are not all baddies , intent on destroying stocks . 
That is vitally important because one of the big problems in the industry is a lack of confidence . 
I would support references made by a number of colleagues to the need for decentralized management . 
That is also part and parcel of the business of restoring confidence amongst the fishing communities on the whole question of how to conserve fish stocks . 
With these remarks I would reiterate that there are some grave procedural problems . 
We have to get it right so that in the long-run the fish stocks of Europe are conserved and thereby the fishing communities saved . 
Madam President , I am looking at the agenda for today . 
I really think that if we are going to get into the regular habit of continuing votes from lunchtime at 6 p.m. , then it should say so on our agenda . 
It has been common practice for that not to happen . 
The votes at 5.30 p.m. are for the urgencies . 
It does not indicate we will just carry on voting with everything that is left over . 
I think we should in future make it clear on our agenda what we intend to do with regard to votes . 
As you know , the Lehne report , which deals specifically with Members ' assistants , is before the Committee on the Rules of Procedure , the Verification of Credentials and Immunities . 
I would like to make it clear that my group has been pressing for this question to be dealt with in this report , but we understand some other groups are not happy with it . 
If there is a clear commitment from other groups , and in particular from the Group of the European People 's Party , to deal with this in the Lehne report , we are prepared to abstain on this report . 
I should like to have Mr Martens ' comments on Amendment No 1 . 
Mr President , on the Souchet report : I want to have an assurance that the legal base amendments which I have tabled and which have been referred to the Legal Affairs Committee will be given ample time to be examined . 
Mr President , I have to clear up a confusion about the point of order I raised earlier . 
What I was looking for was an assurance that we would not come back to this matter until the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens ' Rights had a chance to debate it properly . 
If you could confirm that when I have sat down it would be helpful . 
The whole question of the Souchet reports is fraught with difficulties about the proper legal basis . 
Mr President , there are some exciting new developments in the whole idea of cross-border and interregional cooperation , in particular for people like myself who live in a coastal community in Scotland . 
As president of the North Sea Intergroup , I am involved in some very exciting developments which are being proposed for the whole of the North Sea region . 
In some respects the North Sea region is fortunate in that it has many advantages , for example in education . 
We have fishing grounds which are extremely important to Europe and very important to the fishing communities . 
We have tremendously important historic and cultural aspects which are capable of development . 
On the other hand , we suffer from peripherality and , in particular , from the perception from London that we are very far away from anywhere . 
I am glad to see that Brussels is somewhat more sympathetic than London on occasion . 
In all this , there is a tremendous potential . 
In the resolution Mrs Myller has put forward - and I commend her wholeheartedly on the whole of it - there is a very interesting point 5 about cultural identities and minorities and I can see , for example , that not only the Scots but the Friesians too could benefit from emphasis on their particular language and history . 
There is potential for the development of the information society and for the protection of coastal communities . 
Mr President , the first item on the order of business is a communication from the Commission on urgent political matters of major importance . 
I wish to raise a matter which has been excluded from the agenda , namely the question of Norwegian salmon dumping and the salmon subsidy . 
The Norwegians have been proved guilty and the penalty should be notified by the end of this week . 
Apparently certain committees of this House are able to place certain topics on the agenda under this item which means that ordinary Members can not raise others . 
At that meeting General Cevic Bir said to us that as far as he was concerned the military had done everything they could in the Kurdish lands . 
What was needed now was a political initiative to deal with some of the problems the Kurdish people living in those areas had . 
Now just a few weeks later we see 50 , 000 Turkish troops invading Northern Iraq to deal with what they claim to be the PKK terrorism in those lands . 
This reminds me of the promises we received from somebody called Tansu Ciller , then Prime Minister , now Foreign Minister of Turkey , that she was the bulwark against an Islamic Government in Turkey . 
She is now in government with an Islamic Prime Minister in Turkey . 
Would the Commissioner agree with me that this House and that the Commission and the Council have been manipulated by the Turkish military and civilian authorities and that it is incumbent on us to expose the duplicity of the Turkish Government and military for the Turkish people ? 
Mr President , I want to begin by thanking both the President-in-Office of the Council and Commissioner Oreja for their contributions today . 
It was in accord with his positive and sunny nature that the President-in-Office of the Council gave us his usual optimistic version of what he thinks is going on in the IGC . 
Commissioner Oreja was just a bit more realistic , if not to say a bit more honest in his assessment of the way in which we think it is going . 
In this Parliament I hope there are none - certainly in my group - who wish to be negative , difficult , or awkward . 
We want a positive outcome to the Amsterdam Summit . 
We are determined there will be if we can have any influence on that process because it is crucial for the development of the Union into the next millennium that we have a positive outcome . 
But , if we listen to the President-in-Office 's report , it is indicative of the fears and anxieties of the people of the European Union . 
He made clear that the major politically-sensitive issues are those concerned with the institutional questions . 
I would rather he had said that the major politically-sensitive issues were about how we could really strengthen employment creation and the social dimension , move forward on creating a better environment , better consumer protection , better public health . 
My anxiety about what he said is that those issues are already the process of a large consensus which means that they are already decided and there is not much in them . 
That is why it is so easy to find political consensus on them . 
It is important that we make politically clear that the citizens of the European Union are concerned about job creation . 
That is the only way that the employment chapter will have any meaning . 
Similarly , on the social dimension , I am delighted that the social protocol will be integrated into the Treaty of European Union and delighted that 1 May , Labour Day , saw the election of a Labour Government in Britain that will allow that to happen . 
And we want to see these dealt with by qualified majority voting and co-decision and not by unanimity which I suspect we may see , certainly on the anti-discrimination clause . 
Commissioner Oreja made a very telling statement when he said that what we have is the minimum that public opinion could accept - the minimum ! 
And that worries me and my group very much . 
We want to see the Union moving forward but its first priority must be to deal with those issues that have so destabilized public opinion in the European Union countries themselves about the value of the European Union to them and their families . 
Let us see a real drive forward , not just pious rhetoric about these issues but a real step forward in the Treaty . 
My group will be assessing the Treaty on whether it meets the aspirations of the people of the Union . 
It must also make the Union ready for enlargement and that means institutional changes . 
So there really is an imperative to prepare the Union for enlargement by dealing firstly with the institutional situation that needs to be remedied . 
For instance , we need to reduce the Union 's decision-making procedures to three and we want to see that happen . 
It has been the demand of this Parliament for a long time and we hope it will happen . 
And of course we want to see the extension of qualified majority voting and co-decision . 
We want to see all those things that will ensure that this Parliament 's rights are maintained . 
We can not and will not accept the diminution of any of the present rights of this Parliament - either its budgetary or legislative rights - in any field . 
I hope that will be taken back very clearly to the Intergovernmental Conference . 
I have to report to the House that the reports we heard yesterday seem to be true that Norway has done a deal with the European Union which will involve a voluntary code of export limitation . 
Mr President , I have a genuine point on the Minutes . 
We have still not had an answer to our question which was why we as a parliament have been unable to gain access to the Commission to hear what was going on , whereas the Norwegian Government seems to have been able to talk to every single Commissioner . 
I want to know when we can question the Commission on this issue . 
The deal has now been done to Norway 's benefit and we are entitled to know when we can hear about it . 
Mr President , following the meeting of my group this evening there are a couple of changes which we would like to put to you . 
The second proposal is that we currently have a deadline of 4 p.m. tomorrow for compromise motions and amendments on the IGC and the Amsterdam Summit . 
The outcome of the vote which takes place tonight in the Committee on Institutional Affairs , where , as you know , there are 134 amendments to the text on the IGC , will not be available for consideration by the groups before the deadline for amendments expires . 
I am therefore asking for an extension of that deadline for compromise texts and amendments until , perhaps , 10 a.m. on Wednesday . 
That would allow all groups tomorrow evening to assess whether they want to make further amendments to the texts which will only emerge from the Institutional Affairs Committee tonight . 
We could support that provided our Group and most of the other groups which meet in the evening on Tuesday have at least some opportunity to discuss the amendments and the text that comes out of the Committee on Institutional Affairs . 
My Group meets at 7 o'clock , so it is quite impossible for us to have the amendments in by 6 o'clock . 
We will do everything we can to be helpful . 
Mr President , I would like to propose that if we can have a deadline of 9 o'clock - and we will facilitate matters as much as we can for the services - we should vote on Wednesday . 
I agree , that is what I said . 
Mr President , I am surprised at this result , because the groups are being very helpful to the plenary . 
After all , we have to have the opportunity to consider what will only come out of committee tonight . 
You are giving us one hour , which makes it extremely difficult not only to discuss the amendments we might wish to submit but to submit them in a form acceptable to the plenary . 
That is very tough going ! 
I can not see why , if we must vote Wednesday - and I accept it would be better to vote then - we can not say that if there are too many amendments and it can not be dealt with by lunchtime Wednesday , we will have a special voting session at 5 o'clock . 
After all this House is sovereign . 
Madam President , I join colleagues in thanking the rapporteur for his report , which was quite excellent , as was his presentation . 
But , of course , as the last speaker has said , the report is a reflection of the work of the Committee on Petitions as a whole . 
I am an outsider , ie , I am not a member of the Petitions Committee , but I have , from time to time , constituents with knotty problems . 
Case two : I have a constituent - Mr Hawthorne - who had a villa in Malaga , in Spain . 
He has been struggling now for six years with the Spanish courts and we have not had any help yet , effectively , from this Parliament . 
I feel slightly ashamed about that . 
Madam President , I should like to thank our rapporteurs . 
We have shown that the future of the audio-visual industry is a debate which crosses all political and national boundaries . 
We have all shown a shared concern for the future of television , the most influential medium in our democracies and in conciliation we were united as a parliament which was most welcome and most important . 
It is worth remembering what the directive is about . 
It is about building a strong and competitive audio-visual industry which should offer more than 1 million new European jobs by the year 2000 . 
Free trade must be about reciprocity . 
The directive is about ensuring that we as Europeans benefit economically and culturally from this expanding industry . 
Canada , Australia , all countries across the globe ensure that there is space on their screens through quotas . 
I say to Mr Hoppenstedt that European quotas are not protectionist . 
Moving on to sports rights , there are two possible futures for television . 
The Olympic Games and the European Cup Final , for example , must be on free TV for every citizen . 
TV is Europe 's Hollywood . 
The Television without Frontiers directive is our chance to show that we are really serious about jobs , investments , exports and cultural pluralism . 
We must be able to create and see our own stories , be it Inspector Morse or Derrick . 
We must benefit economically from this industry which will soon be the largest employer in Europe . 
Finally , the major sporting and cultural events must be shown free for everyone 's enjoyment . 
Mr President , firstly I should like to pay tribute to Mrs Díez de Rivera Icaza for her passionate pursuit of the noise issue , despite her illness . 
The main culprits as we know are excessive road traffic and aircraft noise , amongst other things . 
Despite often being seen as a local issue there are huge costs to European society and to business of stress-related illnesses to which noise is a big contributory factor . 
In urban environments we usually find that it is the poorer citizens and the poorer districts where people have to live or work near big , noisy , polluting roads . 
It is high time that this problems was tackled much more efficiently than we have been able to do so far . 
The issues called for in the Green Paper are all very fine : measurement , the information exchanges , the noise mapping . 
Madam President , if you will forgive the expression , Mrs Lulling 's report is definitely ` the bee 's knees ' and we should be giving it all our support . 
Members have already explained how important bee-keeping is in various parts of the EU . 
Perhaps one aspect on which Mrs Lulling is especially helpful is the variations in conditions between different parts of the EU . 
In northern climes , such as Scotland or Scandinavia , daylight hours and the amount of sunshine are very different from the south and , likewise , the warmth of the sun which means that climatic differences have to be built into the provision of sugar in some cases for the honey . 
I have one or two points to make which I think are significant . 
There is a particular worry about the growth of the varroa disease which can strike and have a catastrophic effect on the bee populations of various parts of Europe . 
In Scotland we are immune from this disease at the moment , but we have seen the effects elsewhere . 
It is very important that every measure be taken to prevent its spread . 
In particular , I hope that the newly elected British Government will at last set up a bee inspectorate in Scotland which is one of the few parts of Europe which does not have inspectors for this purpose . 
Mr President , I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office and the President of the Commission for their frank contributions here this morning . 
Those were the two fundamental prerequisites of this round of the Intergovernmental Conference . 
My group believes that the Treaty changes had to be based on four concepts : openness , democracy , clarity and effectiveness , and those were the goals which we believe we have set ourselves for this Treaty round . 
Many of my colleagues will report in detail on some of the issues Mr Van Mierlo and Mr Santer raised . 
I want , and was mandated by my group , to give a short political message within days of the Amsterdam Summit so that my group 's position is absolutely clear . 
I delivered this message with great clarity to the congress of my political party , the Party of European Socialists , last week meeting in Malmö and , in particular , to the nine prime ministers within the Council who are from our political family and who were all present in Malmö . 
We are not overly cynical and we see that some changes have been made that are positive and respond to our demands . 
But we want more and we will be looking to see how much more can even be gained in the final few hours of Amsterdam . 
Finally , we made clear in our group that what we want to see is that those issues to be transferred , as we hope they will be , from the third to the first pillar must also be subject to QMV and co-decision as Mr Santer has already made clear for the Commission . 
It can not be that those issues are transferred without proper parliamentary scrutiny . 
Only progress in those areas will make sure that the Union is ready to enlarge and will have something serious to say to its people . 
We wish to be a little more equivocal about that and it is the position Mr de Vries has always accepted , not to threaten . 
Mr President , the saga of the leghold trap is a sad and sorry one . 
Quite honestly , Parliament feels outraged at the pathetic stage we have reached after all these years . 
Let me say first of all that I do not accept the validity of this so-called agreement which is being put before us because it has been negotiated by the Commission without a mandate . 
I draw the Commission 's attention to the debate in this House on 21 February this year when a great deal of passion was expended on the issue . 
I suggest that Sir Leon Brittan reads that debate since everything we said on that night still holds true . 
My group fully supports the Mr Pimenta 's excellent report once again which also won the support of the vast majority of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection . 
This inadequate and inoperable stitch-up of an agreement is so full of holes that a pack of polar bears could rampage through it . 
It does not achieve an end to animal cruelty through the use of leghold traps , in fact it allows their use for at least another four years . 
It does not even reflect the position of the European Union 's own scientific experts . 
We now have traps with some padding around them which are supposed to be humane . 
We have leghold traps which can be used under water and presumably these are no longer cruel . 
A lot has been said about the rights of indigenous people , especially by the Canadian Government , but this agreement is actually in itself pretty flimsy on including those people in negotiations . 
The deadline seems to have fallen into a black hole and there are no enforcement measures and no sanctions for non-compliance . 
There is no agreement with the United States , as the rapporteur has said , because they have admitted they can not deliver anything through their federal system so their hunters can keep right on using leghold traps . 
We could go on with detailed criticism of the agreement but it really is just too dispiriting . 
The only sensible thing to do is to reject it and go back to the legislation that we have already agreed in this Parliament which is perfectly defendable if Canada were to take us to a dispute in the WTO . 
For instance , no unfair domestic trade advantage to the European Union can be shown and , because the driving force behind the legislation is animal welfare , it can be perfectly well defended as protecting public morals . 
This agreement is hopelessly bad and we can not accept it . 
I call upon the Commission to negotiate a tougher agreement and to ban the sale within the European Union of fur from animals caught in traps which do not meet standards of a new , far tougher international agreement . 
I totally support what Mr McMahon said . 
We are entitled to hear from the Commissioner . 
Sir Leon Brittan was here last night . 
Madam President , a number of disquieting reports have been reaching our ears about serious human rights violations in Colombia , particularly in recent months . 
It has been difficult to verify some of these allegations , partly , perhaps , because they are said to have occurred in very remote parts of Colombia . 
However , as we have heard from the previous two speakers , there can be no doubt about the tragic situation which has arisen in regard to the family named in the resolution , and not only that family . 
We are concerned , for instance , about another person , Neftali Vanegas , whose life is said to have been in danger in recent weeks and whose organization is at least partly financed by the European Commission . 
Maybe the Commissioner would be kind enough to comment with regard to that particular case . 
Mr President , much as I respect Mrs van Bladel , I really doubt whether we should change our approach radically . 
I therefore welcome very much the action of the American President who has imposed economic sanctions on Burma , thereby prohibiting US persons from making new investment in Burma . 
That is certainly having an effect . 
I myself am not against taking economic sanctions , though I realize that this is a policy which is very difficult to sell within the European Union . 
I am in favour of bringing pressure to bear on European firms to disinvest or not to invest . 
Implementation of Dayton Accords in Croatia 
Mr President , the absence of some Members shows how extremely difficult it is for Parliament to function in Strasbourg . 
Some speakers will no doubt raise many important issues , some of which are referred to in the compromise text . 
Many , such as the position of elephants and the trade in ivory , are extremely complex , and there are divided points of view amongst not only affected countries but also the NGOs and other expert groups . 
Because of widespread corruption and the continuation of the illegal ivory trade , we feel it is still best to maintain the status quo for the elephant . 
I wish to concentrate on tigers , because these magnificent animals are on the brink of extinction and a good number of those which remain are in India , a country with which I am connected as chairperson of the Delegation for relations with the countries of South Asia . 
I know that NGOs , such as WWF , work closely with the Indian Government to help with tiger conservation work . 
But , clearly , the most dramatic short-term threat to the survival of the species is the illegal hunting of tigers for trade in body parts , largely for the Asian medicine market , and the low level of grassroots support for wildlife conservation in India , despite very laudable efforts by the government in its project ` Tiger ' . 
It is the responsibility of all the Parties to CITES to work together to stop the illegal trade in tigers and their parts and , for that matter , parts of other endangered species as well . 
First , we need the CITES parties ( and I wonder why Ireland is not a party to this ) to adopt legislation to protect parts , products , derivatives and subspecies of tigers . 
Second , we need very importantly to support public information campaigns in each and every one of the CITES partner countries . 
Third , we need to ensure effective implementation of legislation - and this is really the crunch about CITES . 
There are some very laudable things to be done there but if we do not have implementation - much as with the rest of European Union legislation - and if there is no effective legislation , nothing happens and species and habitats continue to decline worldwide . 
This is really the most crucial , basic issue in attempting to stamp out the illegal trade in parts and products of endangered species and therefore in discouraging the poaching which is so valuable to very many impoverished people in some of the countries involved . 
Training of customs agents and exchanges of information so as to help them recognize illegal products is essential , and the European Union countries can all help with the technical assistance needed in less-developed countries . 
Time is running out for habitats and for the biodiversity of this planet . 
Everyone must pull together in CITES , and I hope Parliament will support the compromise text . 
Mr President , it is good to have the Commission statement , and I thank Mrs Gradin for coming and making it . 
What many Members who have no direct interest in the salmon industry have asked me at the last couple of part-sessions is : how can it be that a non-member of the EU can have such a good deal at the expense of producers within the European Union ? 
If you are in any doubt , ask any Norwegian who is involved in the industry for their reaction to the deal . 
In the words of one correspondent who telephoned Norway immediately afterwards , they are ` cock-a-hoop ' that they have escaped punitive duties . 
I hear from other sources , including the Norwegian Ambassador to the EU , that he is very happy with the agreement . 
Everything that is said in this immensely complicated package has to be measured against the dissatisfaction at finding out that the Norwegians , who have been found guilty of subsidy and dumping , are getting out of gaol , so to speak , or certainly escaping a fine . 
There are still one or two questions to be answered , and I am not sure whether Mrs Gradin can answer them today . 
They certainly have to be answered as soon as possible . 
One is the point about still having to go to the Council and then to the Commission before any action can be taken . 
If any Norwegian producer is in transgression of the rules , there still has to be a decision by the Council authorizing the Commission ; there then has to be a subsequent decision by the Commission authorizing , as I understand it , Sir Leon Brittan 's Directorate-General to impose the duties . 
So instead of 1 June , I presume it will be the end of September before one can realistically expect anything , and then only provided there are no hiccups . 
This is the package and the delay is the price paid by the industry . 
To emphasise yet again , as Mrs Gradin and others have pointed out , it is the vulnerable peripheral communities who will pay that price and the Norwegians will be laughing all the way to the bank . 
Mr President , I want to begin by expressing my warm support for the efforts of the Dutch presidency over the past six months . 
Whatever our assessment of the outcome of the Intergovernmental Conference , we recognize the vigour and rigour which Prime Minister Kok personally has brought to the process . 
My group would certainly want to put on record our thanks to the Prime Minister , his Foreign Minister Mr Van Mierlo and his European Minister Mr Patijn and also the other members of his government who have given this Parliament such firm support . 
It is our role here today to make an initial political response to the Treaty of Amsterdam . 
Secondly , does the Treaty make the Union ready for enlargement to Cyprus , the Baltic States and Central and Eastern Europe ? 
I want to make it clear that my group recognizes and welcomes the advances which the Amsterdam Treaty has brought in dealing with a people 's Europe . 
Firstly , we very much welcome the decision of the Council to put employment at the top of its agenda . 
My group supports the inclusion of the new title on employment and the social protocol into the Treaty as well as the reference to fundamental social rights . 
This is surely what we can do at European level to ensure that the work being done by Member States to deal with the curse of unemployment is sustainable , ensuring that economic and employment policies across fifteen of the richest countries in the world working in close and careful harmony will make a huge contribution to growth and real job creation . 
Knowing as I do the President-in-Office 's commitment to the fight against unemployment , I should like to turn to him with a message from the Socialist Group . 
If the Council was really serious about job creation , there is a real opportunity to prove it immediately . 
The Union 's broad economic guidelines are yet to be fully adopted by the Council . 
There is a stated commitment in the resolution on growth and employment to ensure that employment is taken into greater account when establishing the broad economic guidelines . 
You will also know that the Finance Ministers meeting in ECOFIN have a reputation for completely ignoring the entreaties of the European Council . 
We need the Prime Ministers of the Member States to exercise their authority and insist that the broad economic guidelines are now revised . 
And , President Santer , nothing would prove the political commitment of the European Commission more than if they insisted on such a revision . 
Such a move would also give a clear signal that the summit on employment to be held in October under the Luxembourg presidency had real political muscle behind it and was intended to come forward with concrete proposals , rather than the usual ritual blah blah . 
The promises on employment now need some flesh on their bones . 
The adoption of the broad economic guidelines offers the first opportunity and the employment summit offers the second . 
On behalf of my group I also want to recognize the other positive aspects of the Amsterdam Treaty . 
The acknowledgement of respect for human rights ; the new no-discrimination clause , although it is such a pity that in the European Year against Racism and Xenophobia the Council could not adopt this competence with qualified majority voting ; the clear step forward on equal opportunities , the environment , public health and consumer protection ; the developments on transparency and openness and the reduction in the number of decision-making procedures and the stream-lining and extension of co-decision for the European Parliament . 
I understand that some governments are even now questioning the extended list of co-decision , arguing that decisions made by unanimity in the Council can not be subject to co-decision with the European Parliament . 
Perhaps the Prime Minister could draw the attention of Member States to the existent powers on culture , Article 128 of the present Maastricht Treaty and the existing powers on research , Article 130 of the Maastricht Treaty , both of which grant co-decision with the European Parliament while acting unanimously in the Council . 
The Prime Minister will have the total support of this Parliament in insisting that the list of articles to be dealt with by codecision , as published in the draft Treaty of Amsterdam and now widely circulated , is sustained . 
My group are also deeply disappointed with progress on the second and third pillars of the Treaty . 
We have made it clear all along and have supported your efforts to communitarize some aspects of the justice and home affairs pillar . 
We respect the fact that some transfer has been made but I want to repeat the real anxiety we have about the lack of parliamentary control which now exists in these areas - crucial areas of immigration policy , visa controls and asylum . 
By retaining unanimity in the Council and only consulting the European Parliament , real democracy in these areas is thwarted . 
We hear what the Treaty says about a Mr or Ms CFSP but with unanimity in the Council , how will Mr or Ms CFSP know with what voice to speak . 
Perhaps our greatest disappointment is with regard to enlargement . 
We have grave misgivings about the inability of the Council to agree on any meaningful extension of QMV . 
More than any other issue , this puts enlargement at risk . 
With even more Member States at the table in the coming years , how can we expect to see high standards being set in European legislation to protect the living and working condition of Europe 's peoples . 
Therefore my group believes that it is vital that before enlargement the European Council must come together again to address the question of majority voting in the Council as well as the composition of the Commission and the weighting of votes . 
I conclude by saying that my group is firmly of the view that a Treaty which , despite our misgivings , has made steady progress on the agenda important to our peoples can not be dismissed . 
Mr President , may I just ask you to confirm here in plenary that voting on the Rothley report will be on Wednesday . 
Mr President , I should like to start by congratulating Mrs Pery on her report . 
She and I had the good fortune of going to Senegal and talking to the fishermen . 
Perhaps that is one reason why the agreement with Senegal is an improvement on some of the previous agreements . 
One of the defects in the system is not only that we often get presented with a fait accompli but that we do not get a chance to go to the country concerned . 
We still have problems about the timing of agreements in general , but again , I see some progress in the Senegal case as opposed to some of the others . 
Other grounds for satisfaction are that we have moved to a longer distance from the shore before the EU fleets can come into operation . 
The big worry in all these countries is that their indigenous , traditional , in-shore fleet will never have the chance to develop or will find their catches have been scooped up by the big , powerful European fleets . 
On the question of the cost of these agreements , I take issue with my colleague Mr Teverson from the Committee on Fisheries . 
I would see this agreement as being an opportunity for European fishing fleets to benefit . 
The criticism that comes from many parts of the Union is : why is it that only certain countries take advantage of these agreements ? 
Why is it Spain , France , Portugal and Greece in particular ? 
The question I would like to ask the Commissioner is : is there any problem about fishermen from other countries getting involved ? 
What is the procedure ? 
Mr President , that ties in with Mr Gallagher 's point . 
I asked the Commissioner a direct question . 
Is there a procedure that she could outline ? 
Madam President , as most poeple in this House know , this will be the last occasion on which you sit in the Chair of this plenary before your retirement to take up your full-time career in the National Assembly . 
On behalf of my group and I am sure , on behalf of all the Members of this House , I should like to wish you the very best for your career and , in particular , to say that your integrity and the respect in which you are held in this House , for the manner in which you have chaired this plenary over many years are without question . 
We wish you good luck and would like to offer you these flowers on behalf of my group and , indeed , of the whole House . 
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens ' Rights has let Parliament down by not properly dealing with the legal base amendments I have tabled . 
By so failing , this Parliament is in danger of finding itself adopting something which is legally incompetent . 
This would not make us look very clever if the matter were subsequently to be taken to court . 
I want to register this point of order , and urge Members that the only way out of this is to support Amendments Nos 3 and 4 which , quite clearly , safeguard the common fisheries policy against any tampering with its legal base . 
There is a big institutional difference between the European Commission in front of us and the Fisheries Committee . 
I would not like this House to confuse the two so I move that correction . 
Mr President , here we are again discussing Turkey . 
It is the same old story about Turkey . 
Political alliances wax and wane and Turkish governments come , promise , and go . 
Well here today we have another press release from the new Prime Minister of Turkey , to end arrests for freedom of speech by the end of this month and to give guarantees for all press freedoms . 
When I was in Turkey in March this year , we had a promise from the then Turkish Government to ensure that by the end of this year all human rights abuses in Turkey would be ended . 
This morning we heard the Commission say that it had adopted a communication on relations with Turkey . 
This morning Mr Santer and Mr van den Broek asked very reasonably for Turkey to help find a solution to the long-standing problem of Cyprus , using membership of the European Union for Cyprus as a catalyst . 
What is the response from Turkey ? 
The Turkish Foreign Minister yesterday said that were the European Union to open negotiations with Cyprus , then Turkey could not support the attendance of Rauf Denktash in the second round of meetings designed to solve the Cyprus problem . 
What absolute hypocrisy ! 
And yet there are some chinks of light , and it is on these chinks of light that our hopes rest : the real desire for a proper development of Turkish civil society as reflected in the initiatives of TÜSIAD ; the business world in Turkey putting its muscle behind democratic development ; the trade unions and small business federations in Turkey coming together for the first time ever in an effort to force democratic change in their own country . 
This is the hope of the Turkish people themselves for peace and stability in the future . 
Finally , my group really welcomes and congratulates President Demirel and Prime Minister Simitis of Greece for their ground-breaking meeting and agreement in Madrid . 
That is the hope we have for the future . 
Mr President , the five years that have passed since the well-meaning resolutions of the Rio Summit in 1992 have been characterized by a lack of commitment in the West to meet the challenges of climate change and environment and development . 
Changes in the industrialized countries ' consumption and behaviour patterns have not taken place and this , by default , has encouraged inaction in the South . 
The Party of European Socialists is concerned that poverty and under-development continue to be a cause of environmental degradation . 
Wealthy countries have not kept their promise to devote 0.7 % of their GDP to development aid and cooperation . 
The crucial link between sustainable development and environmental protection is therefore still missing . 
It is good that we are not here tonight to criticize the Commission . 
It always make a change when we are such a small bunch in this Chamber and we are all together on this . 
But the pitiful results of UNGASS , despite strong leadership from the European Union and , in particular , the new UK Government , highlighted the fact that on climate change , financing , water and forests , the gulf between the undertakings given in Rio and the steps to honour them is enormous . 
But all the blame can not be heaped on the shoulders of our own governments either . 
In comparison to other players , this was excellent but we are still left with a mighty big agenda for Kyoto in December . 
In reality we need to pick up the pieces and work towards the next opportunity . 
The most pressing issues remain : targets for greenhouse gas emissions to be agreed in particular by the USA and Japan , protection of forests , fresh water resources , development of renewable energy , the fight against desertification and protection of biodiversity . 
Investment in improving the global environment is investment in jobs and prosperity and it is high time this was given more credibility by finance ministers . 
In attempting to build agreement on these issues , we have to put our own house in order in Europe and secure the involvement of the different actors in civil society in implementing sustainable development and environmental education both at home and in the South . 
One of the ways we can do this is to increase the support to local Agenda 21 processes which are emerging very patchily across the European Union . 
At a time when we are cutting our budgets for development , for work on protection of international forests and for urban environment networking and pilot projects , it is sometimes unclear whether our deeds match our rhetoric . 
Our aspirations are fine but our efforts are insufficient . 
The time to start work on these problems is now and we need a more committed political will from all our governments , our industries and our finance ministers than we have at the present time . 
Madam President , it is not just in the south of Europe but also in the north that we have climatic problems . 
So I am joining in the plea for some European assistance for this area . 
It is very important that Europe has a disaster fund so that it can respond and make the Union popular with its citizens . 
In the county of Moray we are talking about a disaster costing well over # 50m at the first estimate . 
So the plea is for assistance from Europe . 
We do not want to hear : ' we gave you assistance for Objective 1 and 5b , use some of that money ' . 
Resist that temptation . 
Give us some extra . 
Then you will find that the European Union is even more popular in those areas than it is now . 
So I am very happy to support my Greek colleagues in this plea . 
Mr President , the first draft of the Azzolini report was further up the agenda , but it has slipped down . 
I understand that Mrs Oomen-Ruijten 's report is on first . 
The Committee on Regional Affairs is meeting tonight and that makes it particularly difficult if we move the Azzolini report to the end of the agenda . 
So , we would ask that it comes forward . 
Mr President , you will recollect in the Conference of Presidents the almost overwhelming agreement and view of the group leaders that this was a particularly sensitive , particularly complex and particularly delicate issue at this point in time . 
So I would ask colleagues on the Culture Committee , whose views I very much respect - and also their reasons for bringing it forward - to see the sensitivity of the moment and to bring forward a report , bearing in mind the differences which exist across the European Union on this issue in each of our Member States . 
This is a very important issue . 
The whole economy of many Caribbean states is actually in turmoil as a result of this decision . 
We believe that it is not appropriate to discuss that very late in the evening . 
Of course we accept that we need to consider the availability of the Commission , but we would ask that this item be brought forward because of its huge importance . 
Mr President , I think this is simply a mistake , because of the way we set the agenda last week . 
Of course , this is a second reading and we need to have it debated in time for it to be voted on Wednesday lunchtime . 
It is a perfectly sensible proposal , for we usually try to have second readings voted at lunchtime on a Wednesday . 
Mr President , like the rapporteur , I certainly welcome the conclusion of the interminable discussions on the Raphael Programme . 
But the Commission has been a willing , able and patient partner of Parliament over this programme - and quite rightly so . 
The Commission proposed a programme in which Europeans would join together to protect and enhance our cultural heritage : the heritage that is visible , that gives us pride in our towns and cities , that is the very physical backbone of our European civilization . 
Like Mr Sanz Fernández , rather than boring our listeners , I would just like to dwell momentarily on the constitutional aspects of this report . 
The length of the procedure ( two years ) , the apparent ability of one Member State to stop all real progress in the cultural field , comes about because Article 128 is beset and dogged by the codecision procedure with unanimity in the Council of Ministers . 
Perhaps ministers will listen more if we talk more about economics and the importance of the cultural industries , of the creative economy . 
Through their actions some ministers undervalue the critical part the cultural industries play in the whole of our economy and the enormous potential they have for job creation . 
I wish they had realized this a little more when they were considering this important cultural programme . 
Quite simply , as a former culture minister , Michael D. Higgins , reminded us : very often the European Union can not live by commercialism alone . 
Books or buildings are not the same as buckets , films are not fish . 
They need a different approach , more appropriate help , more support and more special measures . 
I welcome the final adoption of this programme . 
I hope this is just a start , that we can build on it , improve it and give it more funding in the future . 
Mr President , I am ashamed that I will not be able to quote Voltaire and Proust as Mrs Lulling has so eruditely done . 
I want to join my colleagues in saying how wonderful it is to have a whole morning to celebrate the advances that women have made in the European Union as well as raise our very serious concerns about the attitudes and the lack of effective action on the part of the governments and the European Union when it comes to the disadvantages that women still face . 
I warmly welcome my two colleagues ' reports . 
Mrs Kestelijn-Sierens ' report rightly applauds the fact that for the first time we have an annual report in the European Union on equal opportunities for women and men . 
This annual report can be an instrument to clarify and explain equality policy to the European Union 's public , especially women , who have long called for a recognizable structure through which they can make sense of its progress , timetable and decision-making . 
The Commission 's annual report is a serious and significant contribution to the European Union 's equality debate at the end of the Twentieth Century . 
Mrs Kestelijn-Sierens is also right , however , to draw attention to the shortcomings of the Commission 's report , such as the need for greater analysis and evaluation , the disregard for important European Parliamentary work on equality and the lack of attention to major topics of discussion close to our hearts such as violence against women and the possible impact of the Intergovernmental Conference on equal opportunities as well as the impact of enlargement . 
On the issue of mainstreaming I congratulate my colleague , Mrs Kokkola , on her report . 
Mainstreaming is a very serious attempt by the European Union 's institutions to bring about a cultural shift in attitudes across policy areas . 
That cultural shift is going to take time . 
It has been complained that only a small group of interested people , of experts , of those in the equality business if you like , understands what mainstreaming is . 
If it is to work and if women are to really get a fair deal in European Union policies , the Commission and Parliament must endeavour to promulgate mainstreaming from now until the Twenty-first Century . 
Mr President , I congratulate Mrs Lenz on her report calling for an end to discrimination against women in advertising . 
It is a call that is ignored , derided and considered old-fashioned by the advertising industry . 
The advertising industry believes that as long as a sardonic quote or a look can be incorporated into the advert , it is open season for portraying women 's bodies in any derogatory way , to sell anything from cars to underwear . 
In my local paper , the Birmingham Mail , I am told that an advertisement is going to be unveiled in Birmingham this week in the form of an electronic , 20-foot-high billboard showing a woman taking off her clothes continuously . 
The AA , the Automobile Association , is warning that it could be a source of distraction and could lead to accidents . 
I quote this as an example of the lengths to which the advertising industry in Britain is going at present in order to sell products : women in chains to sell cosmetics , women who are overweight portrayed in the most derogatory terms . 
Mrs Lenz 's call for self-regulation is a laudable one but I fear that the industry will ignore it . 
The European Union institutions must use their combined forces and recognize this as a growing problem in the 1990s . 
They must act to provide a Europe-wide code of conduct for the advertising industry in order for this discrimination to be stopped . 
Mr President , the more we hear about this whole project the more alarmed I have become . 
I have the feeling that this Parliament could become embroiled in a cause célèbre with the Commission . 
If it is the case that the EBRD is evading its own requirements to go for the lowest cost option , this is a serious matter which could have serious repercussions . 
The European public also will fail to understand why Ukraine is being encouraged to rely on the nuclear option instead of going for what would appear to be a very fruitful alternative , i.e. energy saving , energy efficiency , and renewables . 
It would be very strange indeed if Chernobyl , which to the West stands as a terrible warning of the dangers of nuclear power , and should therefore lead to the phasing out of nuclear power , was instead to become the symbol of its replacement by a new generation of nuclear power . 
This is - or could be - a historic turning-point . 
Madam President , I do not wish to reply to Mr Donnelly : I want to confirm what he has said . 
In fact I spoke with the President at the Conference of Presidents last week and asked him to make a room available for the Delegation for relations with the United States , given the nature of the issues that we have to discuss between Europe and the United States . 
I was assured that that would happen , so I am somewhat dismayed if what Mr Donnelly has said is correct . 
Mr President , at the end of the summer and with a lovely sunny day outside , a lot of people probably think that global warming is really quite a pleasant thing . 
But we know in reality that it leads to a great deal of unstable and dangerous weather conditions and is going to have some very serious effects across the world . 
I do not intend to give a lecture here today about climate change because we have rehearsed this issue many , many times in Parliament . 
We know that the main purpose of this legislation on the monitoring of greenhouse gases is twofold . 
First , it aims to build a framework in which we can measure these emissions against the reduction targets to which we committed ourselves at Rio . 
Secondly , they are designed at a more local level to assist in alerting people to occasions and the locations when air pollution is putting health at risk . 
In 1993 what was put in place as the original monitoring device was , frankly , little better than an acknowledgement and agreement at the European level of existing practice in the Member States . 
Despite calls by Parliament for harmonization of national measurement and inventory compilation and for more transparency at that time , this was a little too much for the Council of Ministers to agree on . 
Certainly stabilization of emissions has not taken place . 
I expect that we are going to find that some fairly shocking emission levels will be found when the environment agency brings out its next Dobris report shortly . 
We have just learned , for instance , that in London , the European Union guidelines for NOx have been breached right across that city for pretty well the whole of last year . 
The Commission 's attempt to revise and improve on the 1983 decision is therefore very welcome . 
Not only do we need a better and more comprehensive monitoring mechanism for greenhouse gas emissions now , but it is essential to put in place a mechanism to cover monitoring post-2000 . 
It is particularly important to take greater account of the greenhouse gases other than CO2 , such as methane and nitrogen oxide . 
In December we are going to Kyoto to try and persuade the world to agree to a 15 % reduction in emissions of a `` basket ' of greenhouse gases between 1990 and 2010 . 
It would be helpful to think that we were making some useful progress ourselves . 
Evidence sadly shows that we may not reach our own targets . 
The Commission , in the cautious mode it adopts these days , was very vague about its timetable . 
Therefore my group supports the amendments for a report each year on cumulative emissions of greenhouse gases and projected cumulative emissions up to 2005 , 2010 and 2020 . 
Furthermore we believe it is better to determine whether targets are being achieved using a gas-by-gas approach rather than the all-in basket approach . 
On the substance of the amendments , we support all those from the committee but we are not in favour of Mrs Schleicher 's Amendment No 13 , which appears to be unnecessarily restrictive . 
Madam President , we are now at a rather crucial stage in Kenya , with elections coming up very fast on the horizon . 
We certainly welcome the concessions made by the government and the vote by the parliament on 11 September . 
Secondly , how far will the reforms go ? 
In particular , the requirement to have a certain proportion of the votes in a number of regions seems to be the reason why there have been oppression , beatings and intimidation in the Mombasa region . 
Will that also be part of the package ? 
Madam President , my motion for a resolution today concerns the situation in Ethiopia which , despite its natural resources , is one of the poorest and least-developed countries in the world . 
It is a very complex country with some 55 million people , including no fewer than 76 ethnic groups , speaking 286 languages . 
Ethiopia , as we well know and first learned graphically ten years ago and more , has a long history of war , famine and drought . 
The last elections in 1992 gave everyone hope that the situation would eventually improve . 
Alas , only three years since the new constitution was drawn up guaranteeing basic human rights , and despite promises made by the Ethiopian authorities , there are still numerous reports of human rights abuses committed by the Ethiopian government forces , and no doubt others . 
The authorities admit that some of these have occurred , but say that they are isolated incidents committed without their approval . 
They maintain that such abuses are to be expected in a country which has been brutalized by 17 years of oppression and civil war . 
The recent killing on 11 June 1997 of Mr Assefa Maru , of the Ethiopian Teachers ' Association , once again highlights the necessity for the Ethiopian authorities to respect the human rights of their citizens , whatever ethnic group they may belong to , and for the European Union to monitor closely the situation in Ethiopia . 
I ask for the support of the House in the face of this grave violation of human rights . 
To my knowledge it is the first time he has ever taken any part in any debate on human rights . 
We are concerned here about human life and the fate of Mr Assefa Maru , who was murdered . 
It is not the time , therefore , to be highly critical of the semantics of the resolution , which I am more than happy to amend to the extent that is thought necessary by the House . 
Indeed , it has already been acknowledged by the presidency , and alterations have been made to the resolution which I hope will be acceptable . 
Madam President , I have two very short and relevant points to make . 
Firstly , if there is genuine confusion about what is or is not before the House to vote on , we can not possibly vote this afternoon ; and there is confusion . 
Secondly , Mr Moorhouse should consider his position and withdraw the allegations right now , because those of us who share the concern feel equally attacked . 
Madam President , I think I owe it to Mr Tomlinson to make an apology for my rather strong statement in relation to his views . 
I feel sure that he and I are at one in wishing to expose human rights violations , not only in Ethiopia , but in any country that we may feel obliged to do so and he , like I , will want to take action where necessary against offending governments . 
Therefore , I gladly withdraw the particular remark I made which I know he felt very deeply about . 
Mr President , yesterday a very important decision was taken . 
In the absence of any Members from Wales , I should like to take it upon myself to congratulate the people of Wales on the exercise of their democratic right to self-determination . 
We look forward to Wales and Scotland going forward together . 
Mr President , I should very much like to associate myself with the comments made , in particular by Mr Medina Ortega and Mrs Fontaine . 
I wish to address myself to the Dutch media and , in particular , to some sections of the Spanish media , who have used this incident in a very vicious way against Mr Medina Ortega . 
I wish to place it clearly on record that for month after month after month Mr Medina Ortega , as vice-chairman of this group , has taken responsibility for the plenary for my group on a Friday morning here in Strasbourg . 
He has done that in order that I may be able to deal with the administration of my group and to give me some time when I do not need to be in the plenary . 
I must point out that I am always here , although not present in the plenary . 
Mr Medina Ortega has done that conscientiously , month after month after month , which means that he is not able to take the special plane to Madrid to go home , as other people do , but actually takes a flight later on at his own personal cost in terms of time for other things . 
I want to make it absolutely clear that he has my and my group 's complete confidence , and we resent very much these imputations against his personal integrity . 
Mr President , we strongly support the proposal for the Areitio Toledo report because it is important that it is dealt with in the presence of the Commissioner . 
We would ask the plenary to agree . 
Rather than trying to shift the blame on to the Council , as we all love to do , would the Commission not agree that this is actually a piece of gross mismanagement ? 
First of all , to publish a tender for something which has not received the approval of the Council strikes me as being extraordinary to say the least ; and secondly , to encourage an organization which is clearly involved in the public health sector to apply for a tender which is about the social economy also seems to me to be perhaps well-meaning but nonetheless gross mismanagement . 
Would the Commission accept that this is really not the way to attempt to support programmes which perhaps we might all wish to support , as it simply ends in grief ? 
Madam President , I notice from the Minutes of this morning , as well as yesterday morning and the previous day that there is obviously a serious problem of underemployment among the Conservatives in this House . 
They seem to spend most of their time looking at the internal procedures of other parties . 
Perhaps you could give them some reports to do , some real work . 
Madam President , there is a great deal of importance in having the remarks of 199 voted because they will make this money more easily available to the Administration to facilitate spending . 
At the moment they are operating under some difficulty and the remarks are designed to remove that . 
That is why there has been a request to vote the remarks separately . 
Madam President , I have no intention of opening a debate on the amendment . 
That is what I am standing to criticize - that Mr Balfe should have been given the floor on this issue in the way that he was . 
It is not appropriate to discuss the content of the amendment at this point . 
Some of us - just so that everyone here is aware - have been arguing and asking for clarification about this pension fund for years . 
It is not the result of one television programme ! 
Mr President , the forest fires which have been raging in Indonesia are nothing short of a global environmental catastrophe . 
Carcinogenic smoke , which has spread for more than 3 , 000 km , will have a lasting effect on the health of 70 million people , many of whom have no access to a reasonable level of health-care or even unpolluted water . 
The culprit is the Indonesian Government turning a blind eye to illegal clearances and the greed of the private companies they support which , just like the oil companies in America , have no concern for the dramatic effects on the world climate their actions are causing . 
Sadly for the planet , the Indonesian timber barons are more concerned about denying guilt than preventing a recurrence of this tragedy in the future . 
I call the attention of the House to the article in The Economist only last week which was predicting exactly such an event . 
I call the attention of the Commission - in addition to what Mr Eisma has said , rather than repeat it - to paragraphs 10 , 11 and 12 of this resolution , and trust that this disaster will concentrate minds in those in government in south-east Asia to play their part in building a more sustainable future , which is something they certainly have not been doing in the past . 
It concerns , in particular , the very significant variations which appear in the various language versions of the Fraga report . 
There are differences between the language versions and also between the version adopted by committee and that appearing before us now . 
You have a dilemma now if you were in the chair at that point . 
I drew the attention of the sessional services to that problem last week . 
Madam President , this morning in my group I raised this issue because it had been raised with me several times by the Group of the European Radical Alliance which pointed out that there were significant technical and linguistic errors . 
Madam President , I really do have to protest at your handling of this referral back . 
This did not give us a chance to press for a roll-call vote which we would certainly have done as a group . 
This is an extremely important issue and I must register a protest at your departure from the procedure which you yourself described at the beginning of the session . 
Mr President , I was a little bit surprised to hear the rapporteur introduce the report by saying that the most radical ideas were not included , quite the opposite . 
It is , in fact , my group the radical group who are trying the conserve what we have of our common fisheries policy and her ideas are not only radical but to my view reckless and dangerous . 
I can think of nothing more destabilizing for Europe than the prospect of fish wars right across the European waters , not just in the waters that are currently covered by this CFP but in the Baltic and the Mediterranean . 
I have a very real concern that in the pursuit of this obsession about the free market and economic efficiency , we could be faced with a very destabilizing situation indeed . 
It is quite significant that the common fisheries policy recognized quite the opposite of what Mrs Fraga said , namely that fisheries is not any old economic activity but , quite the contrary , it is a very specific and unique form of economic activity and it has to remain so . 
It is too important to be thrown to the mercy of the free market . 
The common fisheries policy is not a temporary derogation from the principle of freedom of access which will automatically lapse at the end of 2002 . 
That is a vital point of disagreement between the two sides in this debate . 
Relative stability , which I was glad to see a number of colleagues stressing , is not really made a centre and cornerstone of this report in the way that it is of the common fisheries policy . 
Relative stability is , of course , the only thing that makes the CFP semi-acceptable to the fishing industry at the moment . 
I , therefore , want the House to oppose this report for the following three reasons . 
Secondly , it will undermine the coastal communities which depend on the fish offshore , their way of life and their viability . 
Finally , and this should concern everyone in this House , even if they are far from the sea , it will undermine support for the European Union and give added fuel to those who say there is only one way out of this desperate Common Fisheries Policy and that is to leave the European Union . 
We must resist those siren voices and we must resist this report . 
Mr President , in a spirit of compromise my group wishes to withdraw Amendment No 50 and support Amendment No 4 tabled by the ELDR Group . 
This will help the House and should be taken first before Amendment No 8 . 
We would maintain our request for a roll-call vote . 
Mr President , certainly not . 
This is far too important an issue for the future of the fishing industry of Europe to worry about getting to lunch on time . 
It is our right to insist and we do so . 
Mr President , I understand Mr Scapagnini 's point but there is no space to bring this forward , without breaking up some of the very important debates we already have timetabled . 
My group would support taking it at a later part-session if Mr Scapagnini is not happy with its position on the agenda this month . 
Perhaps we could now put this report in . 
I understand it is acceptable to the chairman of the committee and to the rapporteur that it goes into that space on Thursday 's agenda . 
Mr President , I come from a country which is , arguably , the best energy-endowed in Europe , namely Scotland . 
But I do not want to talk about Scotland today , I want to talk about countries on the far side of the globe , such as Kiribati , Tuvalu and Bangladesh which will bear the brunt of the rise in sea level if we do not take immediate action . 
I wonder whether this House could contemplate the disappearance off the map of these little countries like Kiribati and Tuvalu and the widespread devastation of Bangladesh , one of the world 's most populous areas . 
That is why this debate is so important . 
I should like to commend the points made by our colleague , Mrs McNally . 
So much is at stake and although the EU is not the world and therefore we can not take the whole world 's burdens on our shoulders , at least let us argue forcibly for the right policies and the right targets and go to Japan in an aggressive frame of mind to try to save the planet from a catastrophe . 
Mr President , I wish to begin by issuing , on behalf of the Socialist Group , a great tribute to the work of the Temporary Committee and , in particular , to its rapporteur Mr Böge and its chair , Mrs Roth-Behrendt , and also to all Members who took part in what has been an exemplary piece of work . 
It is important because it signifies that now the European Parliament has come of age in terms of its monitoring , investigation and control of the Commission , which is one of our fundamental roles . 
We are now demonstrating that we are carrying this out . 
So my group wants to thank the Members concerned very warmly . 
No one who has read the report can be left with any doubt as to the seriousness with which the task has been tackled . 
It is the same quality of work which we saw coming from the first Committee of Inquiry which resulted in the recommendations which the Temporary Committee have been seeing through . 
The combination of that Committee of Inquiry and the follow-up work of the Temporary Committee bodes very well for the future in our role in this respect . 
It is a matter of some personal satisfaction that one of the very first actions of the new Minister of Agriculture in the United Kingdom , following the general election on 1 May , was to offer to come here to this House and talk to the Temporary Committee , in contrast to his predecessor who refused to do so . 
In coming to this House he acknowledged the responsibility of the British Government for this whole BSE crisis . 
That has changed the tone of the debate with the British Government and I welcome that . 
I recognize the huge commitment of the Commission to the work needed to fulfil the recommendations of the original Committee of Inquiry . 
I pay tribute to Mr Santer and his colleagues ' openness in the discussions . 
Mr Böge and Mrs Roth-Behrendt have made comments about what still needs to be done and I am not saying that everything is fine . 
We recognize that there are still shortcomings , in particular , the five areas where work still needs to be completed . 
Although , I am sure that the Commission did not expect us to say everything is wonderful , it is right that we pay tribute to the commitment it has shown in work with the Temporary Committee . 
We in this Parliament have watched and will continue to watch what goes on - in the way the Commission responds to the recommendations of the Temporary Committee and the original Committee of Inquiry through our standing committees . 
It is now their role to take up this work . 
If there is one major deficiency - and Mrs Roth-Behrendt has already referred to it - it is that in our resolution we have made no criticism of the Council . 
Clearly in some areas where the Commission has tried to carry through the Committee of Inquiry 's recommendations , the Council has not been helpful - in fact , quite the opposite . 
We should be making that case here . 
Mr Böge made the case that national governments are not carrying through their responsibilities . 
Mr President , I should like to thank the rapporteur , the chairman of the committee and Commissioner Bonino for the work they have done . 
The important thing in the context of the follow-up Committee of Inquiry has been the amount of change that has been implemented by the Commission . 
In a reasonably short amount of time , there has been a complete reorganization of the way food safety is dealt with and I am sure this will increase public confidence and improve food safety by ensuring high standards . 
The key points are reorganization of DG XXIV and transparency in the work of the scientific committees , together with improved monitoring measures and wide dissemination of data . 
While the vast majority of Parliament 's recommendations have been fulfilled , there is still plenty more needing to be done . 
The lack of political will at Council level means that we have to keep up pressure to ensure more progress is made to keep the public fully informed about all aspects of nutrition that are important for public health . 
Regaining public confidence is the essential factor in this affair and a real start has been made to achieve this . 
I want to rise , on behalf of my group , to support that request . 
You may know that there was considerable discussion in the Conference of Presidents about this last week and at the time one of the questions which I and others raised was : what exactly does one say at this point in time on a very complex and sensitive issue ? 
It is appropriate that , if we can get a statement from the Commission , we should have thirty minutes of questions under Rule 37 ( 6 ) of our Rules of Procedure . 
This will allow us to examine and hear the views on this issue in an atmosphere which does not mean that we are adding to and exacerbating the problems . 
I would endorse the request . 
Madam President , the Socialist Group will today vote in favour of the Amsterdam Treaty and urge national parliaments and , where appropriate , through referendums , the people of the Union to vote in favour . 
For my group there have always been two priorities with regard to this treaty change : firstly , that it must meet the needs and aspirations and the hopes of the people of the Union more appropriately ; and , secondly , it must prepare the Union for enlargement . 
We in this House know and are deeply involved in the complexities of European Union decision-making . 
We in this House crave institutional coherence and common sense and the present treaty , we also recognize , is not sufficient in that context . 
Whilst we recognize the changes that Amsterdam brought to the treaty by extending in some areas qualified majority voting and codecision and by introducing other minor institutional changes , we , who are so deeply involved , also recognize that not enough was done to create a decision-making structure for twenty-plus Member States . 
That is why we insist in this vote today that enlargement is impossible without further institutional change . 
That is not just our view in this Parliament , it is also the view of the Commission , it is also the stated view of several Member States of the European Union . 
We should be clear as well about the advantages which this treaty brings and the significant progress it makes in reconnecting Europe with its people . 
Let us be glad of the new competence to combat discrimination which , I must say , as I have gone round the Union in the last few months , has been widely welcomed , particularly in this European Year Against Racism . 
This is a long and significant list . 
Some argue that the public are gravely disappointed about the Amsterdam Treaty . 
Some argue that the deafening silence on the treaty since June demonstrates it is a non-event . 
Perhaps rather , it demonstrates that the treaty does not frighten them . 
As we know to our cost in this House , good news is often not regarded as news . 
Mr President , as you well know there is an unfortunate tendency on the continent to mix up England and Britain , something which you and I feel is an important distinction . 
Unfortunately the services have made a mistake in Amendment No 41 : the word ` anglaise ' in the original French text has been translated into ` British ' . 
Mr President , my congratulations to the rapporteurs for their report . 
And although I have to admit that it has not been the constant point of discussion on every street corner , it contains much that is of relevance to the citizens of the EU . 
The employment chapter , the anti-discrimination clauses , the new protocol on animal welfare , the UK 's opt-in to the social chapter are all of relevance to citizens . 
Of course it does not contain everything that people would want . 
Mr Corbett has mentioned its deficiencies in respect of enlargement . 
I would like to have seen some reform of articles 38 to 43 on agricultural policy which clearly are extremely outdated . 
But , on the whole , the treaty is a good one and this is partly because it recognizes , as some contributors to this debate have not , the fairly modest aspirations of most EU citizens in respect of the growth of European powers . 
Members of this House may be frustrated with the slowness and lack of vision of the member governments of the EU but it is those governments who have got to get whatever treaty they agree passed by their national parliaments and passed in referendums if that is required in their countries . 
Personally I rather doubt that if we had a Europe shaped by the citizens , it would quite meet the aspirations of Mr Bourlanges or a majority of this House . 
That is why I have doubts about the end of intergovernmentalism as a means of designing treaties , which several people in this House have mentioned . 
However , we have some reservations about the final report and while we have kept our separate votes to a minimum , nevertheless we have voted against five parts : the first indent of paragraph 8 on border controls ; the first indent to paragraph 9 on a common defence policy ; the second indent of paragraph 12 extending codecision to fiscal policy ; the fourth indent to paragraph 12 giving the Union and the Community a single legal personality ; and , the third indent of paragraph 16 , restricting unanimity to constitutional areas . 
With those provisos we can broadly welcome both the report - and we congratulate the rapporteurs on their work - and the Amsterdam Treaty . 
Mr President , I appreciate my colleague 's concern for linguistic accuracy but as you know the President in the Chair at the time was David Martin who is also from Scotland . 
We have checked the original version signed by the group and it said ` anglaise ' . 
That is why I raised the point of order , just for the record . 
Madam President , it gives me no pleasure either , to have to respond to that kind of comment . 
Sessional services can confirm that the original amendment deposited by our group used the phrase ` viande anglaise ' . 
What happened subsequently I am not responsible for , but we have confirmed it with Mr David Martin , who was in the chair at the time . 
Sessional services can confirm that . 
I hope we can put an end to this matter which is quite ridiculous . 
Mr President , rather than get into a long debate about this , could we not simply agree that the item that is scheduled for tomorrow night at 9 p.m. could cover all the aspects concerned , including lamb as well as veal and beef ? 
I assume that is what the Conference of Presidents intended when they put this on the agenda . 
Madam President , I welcome the Waddington report as a thorough , coherent response to the Commission communication on trafficking in women for the purposes of sexual exploitation . 
It is very difficult to believe that such slavery still exists in this day and age , yet we read that trafficking in women is actually on the increase according to the International Organization for Migration . 
This makes it all the more important for the European Union to have a coordinated strategy to combat it . 
The Commission has estimated that half a million women a year are being trafficked although the true extent of the problem is unknown because of the secretive nature of the trade . 
The high profits and the low risks generated from trafficking encourage the perpetrators to supply more and more women for sexual exploitation in the European Union . 
Many of these desperate women are poor and vulnerable , marginalized from their own societies , who believe that life in another country will be rosier - an escape , a new start . 
It is therefore essential that there be a multi-disciplinary , transnational European approach to this problem . 
It is very encouraging that Member States have recognized that trafficking is a violation of human rights and they have a common interest in fighting it . 
It is also encouraging that the programmes Stop and Daphne are in place . 
However , there is a strong need for increased funding for these initiatives and I call for 1999 to be announced as the European Year against Violence against Women for this will be a further encouragement to increase those budget lines . 
Finally it is important that women 's status in society today is included in the European Union 's enlargement negotiations , especially as the central and eastern European countries have quickly become the new breeding ground and easy access areas for trafficking in women and for women being brought into the European Union . 
Mr President , I join in the congratulations to the rapporteur . 
This is a convention in this House but she certainly deserves them because she has put a lot of work into this report . 
We have to look at ways in which Europe can add value to research which otherwise might be going on or , for that matter , to initiate research which is not likely to take off . 
Likewise , I wish to echo the points made about the value of supporting the small and medium-sized enterprises - a point made by Mr Schiedermeier about the impact on the outer regions of Europe and also by Mr Adam . 
We talk a lot about innovation in the whole question of research and here you have a very innovative sector . 
Often it is very small firms , which are literally at the cutting edge of development . 
Certainly they are pushing forward new ideas for undersea technology . 
This is going to be invaluable for giving Europe an advantage vis-à-vis the United States and Japan in the future . 
I commend therefore this idea of European added value , especially for those who are at the leading edge but often need the support of the Commission . 
My last point in this connection is to ask when people get research grants that they be paid on time , because sometimes these small industries can not accept and sustain the losses involved by the failure to keep up the cash flow . 
Mr President , I wish to begin by saying how much I appreciate the Commission 's presence here in strength tonight . 
This reflects its concern , which we all share in this House , about the depth of the crisis and the way in which it is expanding - it seems to be in a lot of directions at once . 
This must give us all grave cause for concern , because I worry that the whole issue is getting out of hand as well as , arguably , out of proportion . 
I should like to thank Commissioner Fischler for his frankness and openness in explaining to us each step which has been taken and in sharing with us the various decisions taken by the Scientific and Veterinary Committee . 
I look forward also to hearing from Commissioner Bonino in due course her perspective on these matters . 
It is equally positive that it is now quite clearly a majority view that this is a European problem and that we have to have harmonization on a European level . 
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf was correct that regionalization , which I have been stressing as a possible way out for some time , is now being taken very seriously . 
Perhaps if anything positive can come out of the United States ' position , it is that we are now looking seriously at that as an option . 
At other times it invokes the WTO to prevent deals which the EU believes in , such as the trade in bananas , to give one example . 
There is a clear anxiety and determination to find a solution - not to hide behind smoke-screens but to find a solution . 
I was intrigued by Commissioner Fischler 's statement that the British Government had various options . 
It could have declared risks . 
For example , it could have compared the risk of eating lamb chops or other meat on the bone with smoking cigarettes , or drinking alcohol . 
This is an option . 
I wonder whether the Commissioner feels that would have been more helpful than what seems to be a total ban on all kinds of bone-in meat . 
I wonder where the Commissioner thinks we are going in the near future . 
The anger on both sides of the North Channel with the Irish , Scottish and Welsh farmers all at each other 's throats has been caused by the frustration of not knowing how to go on from where we are . 
One last point : could the Commissioner confirm that the failure to address the problem of the exchange rate and the compensation of the British pound has been an exacerbating factor , which is clearly within the competence of the Member States to resolve ? 
For once the European Union is saying `` we care about you ' and that general services that reflect community values and answer to the needs of the public are important and that the Union can not live by sheer commercialism alone . 
It is also saying something absolutely critical in a liberal democracy : that general services are part of the infrastructure of citizenship . 
But what have we seen ? 
We have seen recently a Green Paper on the possible convergence between telecommunications and broadcasting where sadly , the Commission - or some elements of the Commission - have failed to recognize this point . 
Finally , we look forward to a charter which spells out the basic entitlement to public service broadcasting as well as the other services mentioned tonight . 
It will do much for the popularity of the European Union when it recognizes that water is not a wristwatch , fax is not a film and a democracy is dependent on documentaries . 
Mr President , we are here debating a very peculiar creature . 
It is called an agreement yet in reality it is a non-agreement . 
I would liken it to the Cheshire Cat because all you can see is its smile . 
In the face of threats of WTO from Canada and the United States , the Commission took it upon itself to negotiate this non-agreement and it is fundamentally flawed . 
The non-agreement is certainly not about humane trapping standards since , just for instance , it still permits the use of trapping underwater , leading inevitably to death by slow drowning . 
The PSE wholeheartedly endorses Mr Pimenta 's report , in which he comprehensively shows exactly how this non-agreement fails to protect trapped animals from cruelty . 
The Americans can not ensure implementation because of their federal system . 
The Canadians are happy for it to have enough loopholes for a pack of wolves to run through , and the Russians love the self-enforcing , self-evaluating system . 
Even the Cheshire cat trapped behind its smile . 
I urge support for the Pimenta report . 
Madam President , there are two ways we can look at Kyoto . 
We can look at whether the agreement was sufficient to save the planet and we can look at whether it was an important milestone . 
From the environmental point of view it is no news that the conference did not agree on the levels of greenhouse gas reduction needed to reverse the process of climate destabilization . 
However , as a realist I believe we should welcome what has been agreed as a very important first step on a long and rocky road towards reversing the trend in emissions by the major industrialized countries and recognize how hard it was to get that far and how hard the Commission and other parties worked to achieve what they did . 
Having met with the Americans in Kyoto , I found it rather shocking to see how absolutely opposed many of them were to reducing their emissions at all and it is a victory that any agreement was reached . 
The main problem will be whether the United States will ratify and of course this is not a foregone conclusion . 
In the meantime it is essential that we in the European Union remain committed to our more ambitious target of greenhouse gas reduction of 15 % and put our energies into the economic advantage for European industry in being ahead in the clean technology markets . 
I think we should initiate a debate with China , Russia and India to see how we can help these developing countries and others change their trends . 
We should not wait for ratification before beginning the very necessary efforts on clean development mechanisms and the necessary transfer of technology with the developing countries . 
I also look forward to debating the Commission communication at greater length . 
Climate destabilization is not going to go away because of what happened at Kyoto , and we have very serious work ahead of us during the next year to prepare for COP4 in November to ensure that we continue to move forward . 
Mr President , it is very encouraging and refreshing to be able to stand up in this House and say that we have some results from our labours - that we see some progress . 
I look around the Chamber and I see one or two Members who helped to found the All-Party Campaign Against Landmines some time ago , when I was a new Member of this Parliament . 
We have seen a lot of progress made . 
When the European Parliament has played a role in this peace process , we should be able to trumpet it about and perhaps take our minds off some of the negative publicity about trivia that we sometimes have to endure . 
We should also congratulate Ireland on being the first of our Member States to ratify the treaty . 
Also , we should congratulate Mauritius - where some of us hope to go shortly on Parliamentary business - and Canada for leading the way . 
These are all very welcome developments . 
I also salute the eastern European countries , from Slovakia to Bulgaria , that are also hoping to join the Union sometime , for showing the way in this regard . 
All of this is very encouraging . 
What we need to do now , as well as keeping up the pressure on the delinquent countries that have not signed up , is to move positively into putting resources into mine-clearance . 
Here one sees some encouraging developments in the techniques of mine-clearance . 
For example , just last week in Scotland somebody invented a new system which promises to speed up the clearance of mines in a safe and cheap way . 
Similar breakthroughs , I know , are being made in other countries , including in Mr Cunningham 's constituency . 
There are experts who are just waiting to be given the green light , so let us give them the green light from this House . 
I would also ask the Commissioner to be active in cooperating with other countries that want a coordinated response . 
In the resolution there is a very important point about avoiding the duplication and multiplication of organizations , but instead pulling together , so that together we can make a positive contribution to ridding mankind of this particular scourge . 
Mr President , as the sponsor of this resolution , with colleagues , we make no apology for raising the issue of human rights violations in Nigeria yet again . 
We do so following the decision by the Council of Ministers at the end of last month to extend for one more year the sanctions imposed on Nigeria . 
But what concerns us , certainly me , is an apparent softening of the Council 's attitude towards Nigeria and Nigerian sanctions . 
It appears for instance that two or three Member States are now issuing visas to Nigerians to do business overseas , contrary to the Council decision as we understand it . 
Furthermore , many of us regret that Nigeria is to be allowed to take part in the Football World Cup next year , the denial of which could ironically have had more influence on the political situation in Nigeria than anything else . 
So let us be clear : the situation in Nigeria continues to be extremely serious . 
General Yar ` Adua , a principal opponent of General Abacha , died in prison in mysterious circumstances . 
On the other hand , some western oil companies , in partnership with the Nigerians , are being denied sufficient funds by the Nigerian oil company to remedy environmental deficiencies in areas where there has been severe criticism . 
Mr President-in-Office , it is the most tremendous pleasure for me to welcome you to the European Parliament today . 
As a British Labour MEP , I take delight in being able to welcome the first Labour Government Minister in this Chamber for over two decades . 
( Applause from the left ) As leader of the Socialist Group in this House , I know that Socialists , Social Democrats - and some other Members of this House as well - were mightily relieved to see the back of the previous government which was most hostile to , most dishonest about and most obstructive in the European Union . 
( Applause from the left ) On 4 May , just three days after the British general election , the Observer newspaper carried the headline ` Goodbye Xenophobia ' . 
The first positive message of the new government and from the President-in-Office in particular was towards the European Union . 
The Foreign Secretary is very welcome here . 
Today I make a plea to the Foreign Secretary to ensure that this British Presidency will demonstrate that fair play and efficiency and restore British self-respect and dignity in this House and in Europe . 
But , more , we hope that this presidency , in seeking to carry out its priorities will demonstrate the drive , the vigour , imagination , flair and vision which has marked the first eight months of the government 's stewardship of Britain . 
It will be no surprise to the Foreign Secretary or to this House that my group endorses the major policy priorities which he has outlined to us today as his plan of work for the next six months . 
Colleagues in my group will deal with that agenda - jobs , drugs , the environment , the foreign affairs agenda , in detail during the course of the debate today . 
I want to raise just two issues in particular . 
Firstly , enlargement of the Union to Cyprus and central and eastern Europe . 
We welcome the President-in-Office 's commitment to open the process of enlargement in an inclusive and transparent way in March in London . 
I know that the British government believes in making hard choices . 
I want to ask the President-in-Office to take up the hard option which in our view accompanies the opening conference and that is to begin the process of discussing the complex issue which was not concluded at Amsterdam and which the Luxembourg summit at least had the grace to admit must be tackled . 
... let alone the re-weighting of votes , numbers of Commissioners and so on . 
Similarly , the word is out that the reforms of both the common agricultural policy and the structural funds which you mentioned will simply not even begin until the end of this year when the German election is over . 
Nobody expects that these questions can be resolved in the next six months but please do not pretend that they just do not exist . 
The second issue I want to raise is a the decision which must be taken on the euro during the first few days of May of this year . 
This Parliament can exercise democratic control over the euro and the institutions which determine its success or otherwise . 
On this side of the House we are determined that role will be carried out in a very hard-nosed way . 
We call on the Council to look seriously at the proposals coming forward from Parliament to give the euro democratic legitimacy . 
The attitude of the British Presidency in supporting the right of this Parliament to give its view on the recommendations of Ecofin on which countries should be in the first wave of EMU has given a clear message of democratic commitment for which we are very grateful . 
I hope now that the President-in-Office will press his colleagues to support a democratic euro . 
This presidency occurs at a crucial time - I have said it if the Foreign Secretary did not . 
It carries with it the hopes of those concerned for the future of Europe and , in particular , for our young people . 
We wish it well . 
Mr President , we welcome the British Government 's decision to place the fight against organized crime at the heart of its agenda for the presidency . 
Whilst all crime is disturbing , organized crime is particularly repugnant because it infiltrates and feeds off society itself . 
No civilized country and no union of civilized countries can be complacent or tolerant of organized crime , and the citizens of the European Union , in our view , have a right to expect the strongest action at a European level . 
While I do not want to pre-empt tomorrow 's debate on the d'Ancona report , to which reference has already been made , I can not leave aside the issue of drugs on behalf of my group , because we feel very strongly that the drug trade is at the heart of organized crime . 
You can not fight organized crime unless you fight drugs . 
Therefore , as a group , we expressed unanimous and vigorous opposition to the proposals in the d'Ancona report to provide for the legalization of cannabis and the freer supply of all drugs under prescription . 
If time had allowed , I would have expanded on this aspect but time does not apparently allow . 
Furthermore , my group also supports and encourages the presidency 's objectives of promoting police and customs cooperation against drugs , of finalizing the establishment of a Europol with real powers and resources , and of cutting the supply routes of drugs into the European Union . 
Our message to the Council is that it is not enough to put the right policies and organizations in place : policies and organizations must be supported , coordinated and well-resourced . 
Finally , a reference to asylum policy , on which I had hoped to say more . 
This is another area where the presidency should be more active , ahead of the incorporation of the Schengen agreement into the European Union . 
I have to leave it there but we need to make a clearer distinction between political refugees and economic migrants . 
I welcome the President-in-Office 's cautiously optimistic response there . 
However , I have to say that in this House we have heard endless goodwill towards South Africa since the end of apartheid but there has been relatively little action , particularly on the trade and cooperation talks . 
Time , in a sense , is running out because after the British Presidency other events - renegotiation of Lomé , enlargement and so on - will very quickly crowd in on the agenda . 
So , if we are to get a settlement , it is absolutely crucial that we get one during the British Presidency . 
The problem up to now has been in the Council , not with the Commission and certainly not with Parliament , and if the South African Government comes back to the Council and wants to renegotiate a mandate , the British Presidency will have to give this an extremely high priority indeed if it is going to bring the more reluctant Member States into line . 
So I hope that there is awareness that there might be a renegotiated mandate and that the British Presidency will give this top priority if need be . 
I would just like to say that as Mr Nassauer read out one bit of the British Home Office 's brief on this , he did of course fail to read out all those bits in it that express sympathy with the report and what it was trying to do and some of the elements that Mrs d'Ancona is trying to cover . 
Mr President , this resolution does not just concern Australia but concerns the worldwide problem of the land rights of indigenous people . 
The relationship of the indigenous peoples worldwide to the land is perhaps a more accurate description , because the tradition in the part of the world to which we refer is that indigenous people have a collective relationship to the land rather than individual tenure , which is typical of the Western world . 
In Australia the aborigines say that the land does not belong to them or to the whites but that they belong to the land . 
You have to be aware that when they say this they are talking about traditional migratory patterns in which the sacred places which give them identity belong . 
I wish to support that proposition . 
Madam President , I should like to say , first of all , how much I welcome the initiatives taken by colleagues in joining us in raising this issue , which is clearly of very great importance . 
Also , the timing is very significant given that we are facing a review of the whole idea of structural and regional funding . 
One of the problems that we face is of definition . 
This sounds like something that could be settled easily by a geologist but the economic characteristics of mountains depend on the latitude as much as the altitude . 
The key criterion , I would argue , is the tree line . 
The trees indicate how high things can grow in the mountains . 
I would urge the Commission to bear this in mind when looking at this proposal . 
The second definition problem concerns the data which affects the mountainous areas . 
It is very easy , indeed , with the sparseness of population of mountainous areas for the disadvantage which the inhabitants of those areas suffer to be lost in a much bigger area of definition . 
I know that the Commission is very much wrestling with the problem of defining areas . 
I would counsel against losing the disadvantage of those areas in a much bigger area just for the sake of administrative convenience . 
That is a battle which will have to be fought , and fought very hard , right across Europe . 
I would hope that the Commission would be able to look pragmatically at the whole question and begin to take into account the question of climate , not just some of the macro-economic indicators . 
Some people might think that is a tall order , but there is an encouraging precedent , and that is what has happened in the accession negotiations with Sweden and Finland when the Swedes and the Finns quite rightly argued that Objective 6 , as we now call it , should be recognized , i.e. that the climatic disadvantages of the north of those countries should be the subject of a special objective . 
That is due to be transferred into Objective 1 . 
That is fine as far as it goes . 
This would have application certainly to the highlands of Scotland . 
People go there to train to attack the Himalayas and therefore , by definition , the mountains are seen as fairly cold and challenging . 
It also applies to other parts that colleagues have mentioned from France , Italy and South Tyrol . 
All this mean that we have to move towards a new approach to the question of redressing the disadvantages which clearly is at the heart of the whole idea of regional and structural policy . 
I commend these initiatives to the House . 
I hope that the Commission will take them on board and respond positively . 
I find this very disturbing and want to register a protest in this House . 
I should also like to ask Commissioner Oreja , who I know has a very strong interest in these matters , whether he does not agree that this will weaken the voice of Scotland and Wales in particular at this time when we are talking about the future development of Agenda 2000 and all these vital issues ? 
Madam President , I should like to join in the congratulations to Mr Parodi for his excellent work and welcome the constructive nature of this whole debate . 
I would also like to echo the points made by Mr Watts about the dangerous nature of seafaring . 
We broadly support the whole thrust of this report . 
I would like to say to Commissioner Bjeregaard that the challenge now from the point of view of the European citizens is to see that the standards that we expect are applied to those third country crews . 
Otherwise , there is a grave danger that a lack of fluency in the right language , the failure to be able to communicate could put lives at risk . 
In a year when a large box-office draw is a film about the sinking of the Titanic , we need no reminder how terrible disasters are and we want to do everything possible to prevent their occurrence . 
Mr President , it is important that we try to clarify this . 
Everybody in this House , yesterday and this morning , has been desperately trying to shuffle off responsibility for what happened here yesterday . 
I am not ashamed to stand here and say that I have been one of the group leaders , and every one of them in this room with me should perhaps stand up so you can see who we all are . 
Let us be clear how this reform came about . 
The idea of linking attendance with roll-call votes came out of the working group established under the chairmanship of Nicole Pery . 
That was where these proposals came from . 
Every group in this House was represented on that working group . 
The Conference of Presidents does not establish these proposals or the way in which they are carried out . 
We kept pursuing the need for reform and putting pressure on the President and his predecessor , Klaus Hänsch , who have both been supportive of the process of reform . 
That is our role and we stand here absolutely and take our political responsibility for insisting that reform is carried through . 
Yesterday , Mr Killilea stood up on behalf of the Quaestors and said : ' It is not us , the Quaestors , the Bureau is responsible ' . 
The Bureau , I understand , is trying to say it is the Conference of Presidents . 
I accept my responsibility for the reform . 
We did not lay down the detail of these proposals . 
( Interruptions ) If the detail is wrong , it needs to be adjusted . 
But I do not back down or retract one bit on the need for reform . 
Mr President , my group is very aware of the responsibility it bears in this debate today . 
Within this group we have Members of Parliament who represent nine socialist and social democrat-led governments in this Union , and these parties are in government in three more of the 15 . 
We do not pretend that it is easy to find a common position , given the range of views which are represented not just in those 12 governments but also amongst the people of the European Union whom we represent . 
But I want to pay tribute to my colleagues who have striven to find principles which are common to us all and which unite us in this , one of the most difficult life-and-death decisions this present Parliament has had to confront since 1994 . 
We have made our criticism about the lack of progress of the CFSP quite clear in recent years and , particularly , our dissatisfaction at the provisions of the Amsterdam Treaty in this respect . 
So I think we need to demonstrate a little humility when it comes to decision-making in this field , and show some support for those of our colleagues , of all political persuasions , who will be confronted with the decisionmaking on this issue in national parliaments ; those who will really have the awesome responsibility for the lives of their fellow citizens under arms and those of the many thousands of Iraqi citizens who are at risk . 
With all of this in mind , my group has just three main strategic political points which it wants to make in this debate . 
Firstly , we insist absolutely that Saddam Hussein must comply fully with the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council and allow the unrestricted and unconditional access of the UN weapons inspection teams to all locations on Iraqi territory . 
There can be no compromise on this . 
These UN resolutions on Iraq represented a real step forward by beginning the process of monitoring and verifying disarmament . 
The UN showed what the future could hold in determining a safer world . 
If we were then , and are now , serious about this work , we must not allow Saddam Hussein to flout the international community . 
We wish him well on his mission to Baghdad . 
We believe that it is the role of the United Nations Security Council to come together at this time to reconsider the Iraqi problem . 
Whilst they do not represent the majority in my group , be in no doubt that they do not argue that case from any weakening resolve to enforce existing UN resolutions ; nor because they want to give Saddam Hussein any hope that he will be able to escape our determination to remove from him any potential to damn the region and the world with his weapons of mass destruction . 
Rather , they argue the need for a fresh UN mandate because they fear to inflict death and destruction on Iraqi civilians , who are the real losers in this ; because they also fail to understand the objectives of a military strike against Iraq ; and because they genuinely fear that a precipitate military strike may initiate a conflagration in the Middle East that would kill and destroy on scale not seen for many years . 
There is not one member of my group who does not share those dreads . 
For the great majority , however , we believe that the United Nations-led drive for a political and diplomatic solution must be the focus for our parliamentary action at this moment . 
Thirdly , my group is committed to the food-for-oil programme and the additional programme which Kofi Annan has proposed to support the Iraqi people . 
I know that next Monday , 23 February , the General Affairs Council has the situation of Iraq on its agenda . 
I hear you saying that the Presidency has kept partners in the European Union informed . 
In our view , information is not enough . 
Parliament needs the Council to find a common position for the European Union . 
We recognize the difficulties ; we recognize the lack of precision and real competence in the Treaty on European Union ; but our Union is , if anything , a real model of conflict resolution . 
But I feel sure that you , Sir , as a distinguished member of the Bureau , having taken a most wise decision , will find it possible to adjust the situation to meet cases like mine , and that is why I rather expanded on the position . 
Mr President , I would like to echo the points made by colleagues and it is good to see the House uniting . 
Mrs Maij-Weggen said that her group was not radical , my group is called the Radical group and naturally we associate ourselves with radical policies . 
I think what is important is that we have compromised to produce a joint resolution which I hope the House will pass overwhelmingly . 
I also agree totally with the remarks made by my colleague Mr Fassa . 
We have to remember sometimes just how big the prize of Nigeria is or how big the challenge . 
This is the giant of Africa , the country with one hundred million people which dominates the continent . 
As my colleague Mr Fassa has just said if we ignore the giants and pick on the pygmies then people will conclude that the European Union is not serious about its foreign policy . 
We have all been exercised about the problems of Iraq and the dictatorship there , but it would be a lot easier to bring about the overthrow of the Abacha dictatorship than that of Saddam Hussein . 
Sanni Abacha overthrew the elected government . 
In the long term , I think we have an interest in a free , democratic Nigeria with which we can trade as a full member of the ACP Lomé Convention . 
In the meantime , we have set out in this resolution a series of practical steps which the European Union could take and I hope that the Council of Ministers will respond to this and see whether they will go along with each of these . 
This is a very carefully calibrated practical series of proposals from this Parliament and I think that they are a very fitting response to the challenge . 
But at the end of the day the final sanction which has got to be contemplated , and this Parliament has already supported it in the past , is an oil embargo . 
That is the one thing which Nigeria above all fears . 
It is the one thing which could bring down the regime so we have to keep that up our sleeve as the last resort and in the meantime put the pressure on the regime to transfer to democratic government which is what the Nigerian people deserve . 
Mr President , as one of the co-authors of the resolutions on Nigeria and Burma , I am particularly pleased that we are having this debate this afternoon using the oral question with debate rather than the normal urgency procedure . 
I am grateful to the President-in-Office and to Mr Marín for their respective statements which I think probably take the matter as far as possible , bearing in mind in particular that the President-in-Office has , so to speak , to represent the fourteen other Member States . 
On Nigeria , he referred to the sports ban . 
This has to be considered somewhat ironic in view of the fact that Nigeria has been given the go-ahead to take part in the World Cup . 
It tears a hole in the whole system and allows a number of Nigerians to come to Paris and other places to take part in the World Cup . 
I do not know whether he is able to offer an explanation but it is an illustration of how one Member State can drive a cart horse through the whole system . 
On Burma , the only point I can make in one minute , since I was not able to be present this morning for reasons beyond my control , is the extent to which investment is still going on there . 
I wish that the President-in-Office could ask some very pointed questions of certain Member States and of certain companies . 
There are a lot of others involved as well . 
I have made my two points concerning the World Cup and the extent of investment in Burma . 
Mr President , just to revert to the points I made earlier , how does the President-in-Office reconcile a sports ban on Nigeria with the go-ahead for the World Cup which has opened up a whole plethora of contacts with Nigeria ? 
It must be very pleasing to Abacha ! 
In regard to Burma , would he care to volunteer some explanation about European companies investing with fervour in Burma ? 
I cited Total as one example . 
How does that tally with the statement of Mr Robin Cook in regard to new ethics and human rights ? 
Mr President , I would like to back up the questions asked by Mrs Kinnock over benchmarks . 
There were also in the resolution , which we have agreed amongst the groups , a series of measures which we want the European Council to agree to take . 
I am referring in particular to paragraph 9 of the resolution which I am sure the President-in-Office has in front of him . 
I want to know whether we are going to have some action or whether we are just going to talk about prolonging the present situation . 
I too welcome the UK Presidency 's proposal for establishing an EU Code of Conduct on the arms trade . 
It is the logical development and follow-on from the United Kingdom 's new ethical foreign policy and , although nothing is ever good enough for the Greens , I wanted the UK President-in-Office to know that the majority of Members in this House think this is a very serious and historic first step . 
I want to know if the Presidency will take back to the troika the eagerness this House has for consultation , for being able to follow the guidelines , for being able to see where best practice is developing as the code is progressed throughout the year . 
This House may want at some point to establish an annual debate on the code . 
Would the President-in-Office assure us that our eagerness to be involved is taken back to the troika ? 
Mr President , this is something which can not wait . 
I have been invited to Aberdeen Airport next Monday and I wondered whether the President-in-Office could give me advice as to what to say to the people there , or would he like to accompany me to explain to them what is going to happen to their fare structure and to the jobs they fear they will lose ? 
Madam President , I hope we are now moving away from the matter discussed at the last two sittings which brought Parliament into disrepute . 
Along the same lines as Mr Cot , may I have an assurance from you that when the changes to the Rules are drawn up , they will be put to the House so that the House can endorse or reject them ? 
That is all we are asking for . 
Mr President , this House should know that Mr Marin is absolutely right : we were party to removing that budget line . 
That is one of the reasons why Mr Avgerinos , your colleague in the Bureau , is in the process of re-examining the system of urgencies . 
So it is no news to most of us . 
Mr President , in the Minutes it says that I asked for confirmation that Parliament would be able to give its views when the instructions were modified . 
I think there has been a lot of editing , because what I said was that the changes in the rules - because I believe that is what they are - should be brought to this House for confirmation before they took effect . 
That is a very important correction . 
Mr President , I rise to support this request , not just because the issue is important but because this Parliament is in danger of making a fool of itself by saying that Friday votes are not important . 
We have a report from my good friend Mr Cunha which I think makes some fundamental mistakes , and in particular challenges the legal base of the common fisheries policy in an own-initiative report . 
There is no other mechanism for challenging this and I believe it has to be dealt with by Parliament as a whole . 
I would therefore move that we postpone this report until we can be sure of a full House , which , as you know , is not the case on a Friday . 
If this Parliament were to give the impression that it does not care about the Treaty basis of the common fisheries policy , that would be a terrible signal to send out to the industry and to the Commission . 
I beg to move . 
Mr President , I asked for the floor earlier to raise two issues . 
With regard to the statement on Kosovo on our agenda for Wednesday , the contact group is meeting this evening to discuss the situation . 
I wonder therefore if we could have an extension of the deadline for the submission of resolutions until midday tomorrow , which would allow us to take into account the outcome of that meeting . 
That is my first request on behalf of my group . 
Secondly my group has informed you that we would like to vote in the plenary on removing from the agenda the oral question on the Mediterranean programme which was scheduled for Friday . 
I gave notice of this in the Conference of Presidents last week . 
As I said in the Conference of Presidents , the Budgetary Control Committee of this House is dealing with exactly the issues raised in this oral question . 
It seems entirely incongruous that certain groups are raising it in exactly the same way on the floor of this House before the Committee has completed its deliberations . 
My group would like it to be removed from the agenda for this week . 
Mr President , I hope Mr Fabra Vallés made that case to the Turkish Ambassador and others who raised the issue with him . 
We can deal with this issue in the Committee on Budgetary Control . 
There is no reason why that can not be dealt with there . 
It is as much a. . . 
Mr President , the compatibility of the MAI with environmental protection has not yet been sufficiently addressed by the negotiating parties . 
It is of great concern . 
As we move into more and more multilateral environment agreements I feel there is an increased chance of running into difficulties should the MAI , as presently formulated , come into being . 
A paper from the OECD secretariat on the legal aspects has noted that : ' The absence of any evident legal incompatibility does not necessarily dispose of all concerns about the potential inter-relation between the MAI and MEAs ' . 
In particular there is some concern that the transfer of clean technology agreements contained in the Kyoto Protocol to combat climate change could be at risk . 
The clean development mechanism is essential to that protocol 's success and has the potential to run directly contrary to the MAI . 
A binding environment clause should be included which will offer at least similar safeguards to GATT Article 20 and not prove to be an inadequate voluntary clause , such as Article 114 in the NAFTA agreement . 
Furthermore , there needs to be provision for environmental reviews of all foreign investors . 
Without these safeguards for sustainable development , we must have great cause for concern about the agreement at this stage . 
I noted that the Commissioner said in her earlier reply that the Community initiatives had not had the success that was hoped . 
But I hope she recognizes that URBAN has provided an ideal opportunity to develop the sort of bottom-up Community initiatives that the Commission has promoted in its economic development plans and has provided a very good vehicle for promoting the Community with the citizens because of its very local , neighbourhood-level focus . 
I hope that in URBAN II that local element will not be lost and will , indeed , be recognized in the monitoring committees , however they are constituted . 
I hope she can reassure us on that point . 
Mr President , I am sure with the overwhelming majority of this House I want to say that we have great respect for the way in which you chair this plenary and the integrity with which you do it . 
( Applause ) At the last plenary session it was agreed that the whole issue of these administrative regulations agreed by the Bureau would be discussed after three months . 
That is to go ahead . 
The Bureau and the Conference of Presidents confirmed that there were issues that needed to be looked at . 
What we saw earlier was people , once again , trying to make political capital out of that decision . 
We would like you - and I am sure my group would endorse this entirely - to get on with the votes . 
The Bureau will look at this issue as it has decided . 
Mr President , about a month ago I received a delegation of Lebanese men and women in my office in Brussels who were clearly in a distressed state . 
They were men and women with relatives who had been abducted from their homes or offices and taken , apparently , to Syria where they had disappeared without trace . 
In one or two cases the families knew more or less the whereabouts of those who had been abducted . 
It is one of the characteristics perhaps of the European Parliament that we are able to highlight or raise the profile of cases of this sort and that is the main purpose of this resolution which has been tabled in my name and also on behalf of the European People 's Party . 
Remarkably , just a few days ago we had news that quite a large number of people in this situation who had been abducted were indeed released . 
It is nice to think that perhaps our resolution has already played a part but we will never know if that is so . 
But there are certainly others waiting to be released and so one hopes that the Syrian government , not least in the light of the fact that negotiations are due to start in the near future about a possible further association agreement within the Euro-Med programme , will take note of this and act accordingly to release the people where no charge has been preferred . 
Mr President , I echo the points Mr Whitehead made . 
I would like to echo some of the points he has made about the long traditions of Sierra Leone . 
What we are now seeing , though , is another example of the new wave of re-democratization , which is something close to all our hearts in Parliament . 
My plea to Parliament and the Commission is this : we often make criticisms of various regimes and situations , and we are not slow to come forward with them . 
That is right . 
Let us give some special , extra assistance to that beautiful country so that it can re-establish its democracy on a firm foundation . 
Mr President , sometimes we in the European Parliament are rather flattered if people come to us asking for assistance and actually take us seriously . 
I have been a member of the Scotland Travel Club for eight years . 
I have previously been to two World Cups and two European competitions yet I do not expect to be allocated tickets for the games . ' 
This man was hoping that , because the World Cup was in Europe , surely to goodness he would be able to go to the first match . 
As you know , the opening match is Scotland versus Brazil and you would have thought that the people who above all would be there would be the Scots and the Brazilians . 
Instead he finds that he is not wanted . 
The allocation to Scotland is too small and he is not going to be there . 
He may of course decide to go anyway and try to buy tickets on the black market . 
I think this is a very serious situation and one which should have been avoided at all costs . 
I take note of what the Commissioner said about the French authorities following the same procedures as in the past . 
If the procedures have been wrong in the past that is no excuse for not reforming them . 
I welcome the small steps that have been taken to alleviate the situation . 
We are talking about something like 160 000 tickets which sounds like quite a lot but in fact is a very small number indeed . 
I would make a plea to give priority to fans who are going to see their own team playing . 
If there is one thing that makes a game enjoyable it is listening to the fans on both sides cheering their teams on . 
I think it is time some common sense was brought into this whole process . 
Madam President , I understand that part of the difficulty arises because Air France contract out the London-toStrasbourg flight to another airline , which has now withdrawn from the contract . 
That might well explain why there are to be no flights directly from London to Strasbourg this week . 
Madam President , I am not sure whether we are talking about one report or both reports . 
In fact , the Langen report is on VAT and the Miller report is on excise duties . 
My group feels that if the Langen report is removed , they should both be . 
Madam President , there was a late request last week to take the Herman report off the agenda and there is a late request to put it back on again . 
There was a strong request from the Group of the European People 's Party last week that it should come off . 
For us the essential issue is to be discussed in the Randzio-Plath report . 
However , I repeat that my group is agnostic and will have a free vote on the matter . 
Mr President , I agree entirely with the comments made by Mrs Wemheuer . 
Mr President , I appreciate very much what you are trying to do and I agree with you but this is a procedure which we have not adopted before . 
As far as a corrigendum is concerned , if Mrs Theato is prepared to withdraw it then I think that is the appropriate thing and we then vote on the original text . 
If she is not prepared to withdraw it then I think we should refer it back to committee . 
Mr President , could I welcome the President-in-Office here ? 
She started her address by saying that we had to mobilize international political will . 
I think that is precisely the task that faces us because there is a lot of easy talk and yet we need to mobilize that political will . 
I commend in particular the cause of Jubilee 2000 which I think has caught the imagination of many people and which says , with a new millennium , let us cancel the debt of the poorest countries . 
This point is tucked away in paragraph 74 of Mr Rocard 's excellent report but should be right up there in lights as one of the essentials in the alleviation of poverty to which his report is largely devoted . 
This is an excellent report by Mr Rocard , as there are so many aspects to it , any one of which could make a substantial difference to areas of policy and areas of the world . 
For instance , we have paragraph 45 on monoculture , one of the really crushing problems for the Caribbean islands , for example , with their historic dependence on bananas . 
We have the problem of the small island states , not just in the Caribbean but in the Pacific , which are totally at the mercy of global warming . 
That is a very important commitment that we reiterate . 
There is an excellent paragraph on landmines which are such a scourge for Africa and other parts of the world . 
Arms sales are mentioned , again an extremely important ingredient in development policy . 
Paragraph 77 talks about the need to develop fisheries agreements with a development component instead of a purely commercial one . 
If we could achieve that , this again would make a huge difference to the coastal countries off which this Union fishes . 
Last but not least , there is the 0.7 % UN target of aid ; if we could achieve that for every single Member State instead of just for one or two noble exceptions , then we would be doing something noble . 
I would commend the report and perhaps I can finish by saying that ` Nous sommes tous des rocardiens maintenant ' , we are all Rocardians now . 
Mr President , I think it is important to actually say why Mrs Randzio-Plath is not here as there may be some opposition to this because of the fact that she is not here . 
That I think is something we can all understand and I would ask colleagues here who know she is a very hard working woman to please understand that . 
She did try this morning to get the report voted as you know but many other of our colleagues walked out and would not stay on to vote . 
More and more often we are seeing results of appeal decisions at the WTO which have negative effects on the environment and , despite the provision of Article 20 of GATT , environmental protection seems to be far to the back of the minds of many of the international trade lawyers involved in this work . 
In our own work in this Parliament we have watched decision son baby sealskins , leghold traps , animal testing for cosmetics , all coming to grief simply in the face of threats of the WTO , let alone actual cases . 
For instance , I do not know if the officials who are developing the post-Kyoto policies and measures are taking precautions against future WTO attacks from , for example , the oil-producing nations . 
Yet , none of these cases are intrinsically trade disputes and ought to have simply been mediated . 
If we had had more strong multilateral environment agreements , some of these problems could have been avoided . 
It would be very sad if NGOs totally lost faith in the WTO because they could use the WTO tools for instance to battle for reductions in tariffs on environmental goods and services . 
The Commission has floated this idea of a high-level trade and environment meeting in Geneva in the autumn bringing together top-level policy-makers to push forward the debate on how to strengthen the CTE 's work . 
Nevertheless , it could be a useful step forward . 
We are in a world where , to look at one area , increasing biotechnological innovations are threatening farmers ' livelihoods in developing countries . 
Natural herbal medicines from these countries are being pirated and patented by rapacious multinationals who then want to sell these products back at prices which can not be afforded . 
The Multilateral Agreement on Investment is being negotiated which may not yet contain sufficiently strong social and environmental clauses . 
All these problems have a bearing on world trade and the way in which the WTO needs to develop and cope with them . 
The WTO must be made to evolve so as to be able to work in a way which respects these important areas . 
Mr Pimenta 's report contains some very important and sound points and I commend it to the House . 
Mr President , I hope you will refuse explanations of votes from these people . 
They have done them in advance . 
Madam President , like most colleagues in this House , I would like to join in the general rejoicing at this great historic day . 
But my joy is tinged with sadness because my own country , Scotland , will not be part of this historic move forward for Europe . 
As a Scot , I would like to put on record that I believe that most people in Scotland would have supported a move towards a single European currency had they had the chance in a referendum . 
You may ask why does Scotland not move forward ? 
Mr Bonde used the analogy of the Titanic . 
We are like the lifeboat that is attached to the Titanic . 
Mr President , it is quite clear that this House has to support this common position or nothing . 
There is a tremendous amount of interest in this debate and this vote today . 
I have had a full mail bag , as I am sure many Members have from all parts of their constituencies and their countries . 
If I could just quote a professor of medicine who said in twenty years she has never taken up any political activity or lobbying but she is moved to write today to plead because she feels very strongly that advertising bans can reduce the number of people taking up and continuing smoking . 
She goes on , ' I was very disappointed with Mr Blair 's decision to exempt motor racing from the tobacco advertising ban , as large numbers of individuals , particularly youngsters , watch this sport ' . 
I think that there are two important things to note here . 
Certainly , I think that the British Presidency is shameful in diluting the impact of this common position but nevertheless it is that position or nothing . 
If we do not vote for the common position , we are saying to young people , yes , it is OK , it is trendy to smoke . 
I think that if we support this ban , there will be quiet relief right across Europe . 
If we reject it , the people celebrating will not be those in the cancer wards - they will be those in the board rooms of the tobacco companies . 
In that I think , Madam Commissioner , that you can lead as a facilitator although of course it is naturally up to nation states to build that into their national curriculum . 
All that you can do is to emphasize to Member States that they build into every subject that European dimension - that in mathematics they learn who Pythagoras was , where he came from and the contribution that somebody like him made to mathematics as a whole . 
On behalf of the Federal Trust and the Secondary Schools Association of the European Union I would like to thank you , Madam Commissioner , and your Directorate-General for the invaluable support that you have given to a project on citizenship . 
It has enabled this project to develop teaching materials on citizenship , and European citizenship in particular , containing a whole module on European democracy and in particular this Parliament . 
I believe it should have disseminated across our secondary schools in the European Union as a matter of urgency before the European elections next year . 
Mr President , I would like to start by congratulating Phillip Whitehead on his report . 
As Phillip himself has said , in a generally literate climate there will always be those who will want to trade in cruelty and fear in order to debauch society . 
It seems possible that everyone can go almost everywhere on the Internet . 
People can often go where they did not intend to go . 
This is the real problem that we have to address . 
The Internet has a great potential to be an educational tool , a means by which our citizens can communicate across frontiers , bringing Europe closer together , a vital tool of citizenship , a complement to public service broadcasters , a window on open government , a means of addressing the powerful . 
But it will never be any of these things unless parents can be confident that they can leave their children alone with a PC and a modem . 
What is the role of the European Union ? 
In a medium that is still developing it can enable us to share the very best practice . 
Self regulation , as you heard Mr Oreja in Birmingham , always needs oversight of last resort if the self-regulators should falter or even fail . 
I look forward , thanks to the collaboration between the Commission and Parliament , to an early adoption of this recommendation under the UK Presidency , particularly with the blessing of British Ministers Chris Smith and Mark Fisher . 
Madam President , yesterday we were told in this House about a dreadful incident in Turkey where a very prominent human rights activist , in fact the President of the Human Rights Association of Turkey , Akin Birdal , had been shot in his office in Ankara by unknown civilians . 
Akin Birdal is known to many of us in this House as somebody who , with great courage and integrity , has been leading the fight to enhance and strengthen human rights in Turkey . 
This , as you know , is one of our major demands to the Turkish authorities . 
I would ask you to speak with President Gil Robles immediately and ask him to send to Akin Birdal - who is critically ill - and his immediate family , firstly , our sympathies and , secondly , our best wishes for his recovery . 
Secondly , he should write to the Turkish Government urging them with all speed to bring to justice those who have perpetrated this act and also to take on board the criticisms that have been often made in this House about the way in which human rights are regularly abused in Turkey . 
This sort of paramilitary activity must cease . 
Mr President , I too welcome Mr Herman 's report , particularly some parts of it that have hardly been touched on by previous speakers : the need to control power at European level where it has been lost by national parliaments , the need for greater parliamentary control over agricultural and trade policy and , in particular , its recognition that the European Parliament itself must be made more open and more effective . 
We often criticize the democratic deficit and shortcomings in other institutions , but are less critical of our own . 
Inevitably , however , our minds are on economic and monetary union , and I even welcome Mr Herman 's comments on the democratic accountability of the ECB . 
I would prefer that the bank were under proper political control , but it seems that we are all now , or most of us , in thrall to the new religion of ` central bankism ' and the best we can hope for is that when the bank screws the people of Europe it will have to come to the European Parliament to account for it . 
There is one major shortcoming in any possible control that this Parliament might exercise over the ECB and in the latter 's accountability to it , and that is the statement by Mr Duisenberg in the hearings that the minutes should only be published after 16 years . 
I believe that the minutes of the ECB should be available to this Parliament in a matter of weeks - not after a period of 16 years , and unless we can find out how the deliberations go in a much shorter period I think that the whole notion of accountability is something of an illusion . 
Madam President , sometimes when we put forward topics for discussion marked ` urgency ' people say : ' Where is the urgency ? ' 
There can be no doubt whatsoever that Sudan is an urgent situation , even though we have discussed the tragic situation in that land on many occasions . 
This is where the example of Eritrea and Ethiopia , which were in a similar situation not that long ago , is instructive , and so we should welcome the prospect of a referendum , and reinforce the right of self-determination of the south . 
Mr President , often in these so-called urgencies we are dealing with things which one might argue are not urgent . 
However , here we have a chance to put our point of view and make a decisive contribution to an urgent decision which will be taken in ten days ' time when the General Affairs Council of the European Union will be asked to endorse a Franco-British initiative to have a proper code of conduct for the exportation of armaments . 
It is hard to imagine anything that is more important for the long-term future of a world which is beset by strife of all kinds . 
Equally , we have to say that the European Union can not solve all these problems itself , and we have to look to support from the United States , Russia and China . 
Mr President , the President-in-Office said that in two weeks time a very important event takes place . 
I do not have to remind you that event of course will be watched by the whole of Europe , millions of viewers , when Scotland takes on Brazil in the opening match of the World Cup . 
I am sure the President-in-Office will join me in wishing the best to the Scottish team . 
I applaud his enthusiasm for the Cardiff summit , which follows that event . 
Perhaps I could make a point that the challenge for us as politicians is to make the Cardiff summit as important to the citizens as the World Cup . 
You may say that this is a tall order but there are many aspects of the decisions which will be taken over the next year or so which are going to be of profound importance to the citizens . 
I believe the choice of Cardiff as a summit location is an inspired one . 
The people of Wales demonstrated last year that they were prepared to exercise their democratic right of self-determination and so Cardiff will become the home of a democratic assembly for the first time in its history . 
The people of Ireland just last weekend voted again for major steps forward in democracy and I believe we are at the beginning of a new development which includes my own country of Scotland . 
Before the Cardiff official summit takes place there will also be an alternative summit of some of the stateless nations of Europe who are deriving inspiration from the example of Wales and Northern Ireland , the Irish Republic and Scotland . 
They will be putting forward an alternative vision of Europe but it will not be confined to questions of constitutional change because we believe there are some very important issues which unite the many peoples and regions of Europe . 
I am very glad to see the President-in-Office and the President of the Commission stressing the importance of Agenda 2000 . 
This could have a very profound impact on both the people of Europe and the acceptability of the whole European project . 
The plea I would make is that whatever comes out of Cardiff gives us plenty of time , in the European Parliament , to study the implications of the outline that is proposed at that time . 
I know it is a thankless task for the Commission as for the Council but we need to get this one right . 
Unemployment , and I could not agree more with the President of the Commission , is the key task which faces us . 
If we manage to crack unemployment and solve it and produce a growth economy in Europe , then the whole euro project will prove to have been worthwhile . 
If we fail , people will wonder what it was all about . 
The last point I would make in summing up the challenge for the UK presidency and echoing the points made by Mr Pasty and others , is that institutional reform can not stand still and I believe that it will be a great fillip if during the Cardiff Summit we are able to come up with a common statute so that Members of this House are not discriminated against by nationality . 
We all should have the same terms and conditions ; we were elected on the mandate . 
Madam President , when South Africa achieved the impossible and had a peaceful transition to democracy , the whole world applauded the inspiration which President Mandela gave us . 
The whole world also applauded the sacrifices made by the front line states in leading up to that achievement : Botswana , Lesotho , Swaziland , Namibia and the other states . 
All of them have a very specific vested interest in the outcome of these talks because those countries are locked in to a protectionist regime which benefitted them . 
It was not that they wished it but that was the system . 
I am not convinced yet that the proposals from the European side are going to replace that dependency which they have been landed with . 
I would echo the sentiments from all sides in the House for generosity and I am very encouraged by the unanimity with which this is being approached . 
This is a time when Europe can come to a conclusion and sweep aside some of the detailed objections from vested interest and come to Cardiff and say to President Mandela : we applaud you , we salute you but not just with fine words but with action . 
I echo the spirit of the House and I ask the Council and the Commission to take this as one of their top priorities . 
Commissioner Pinheiro said that the need was for a political commitment informed by sound economic analysis . 
I have to say there is also a need here for a moral dimension ; a recognition that business-as-usual EU agricultural protectionism is causing real suffering in South Africa . 
Mr Henderson mentioned the work of the EU South Africa delegation but what are we to say when we meet South African Parliamentarians who tell us that surplus EU beef in Namibia is destroying beef production in Southern Africa or that subsidized EU fruit and vegetables are undercutting domestic production and destroying the South African canning industry . 
Earlier this year the largest canning firm in South Africa laid off two thousand seasonal and four hundred permanent workers . 
High tariffs in the EU and cheap EU subsidized exports to South Africa were cited as the major factors . 
In the context of up to 50 % unemployment , the impact of those job losses is clearly disastrous . 
If the EU had been more forthcoming three years ago , this might have been avoided and those jobs saved . 
One could go on product by product , category by category . 
There are also as the President-in-Office I am sure knows , serious problems with regard to dairy products and the South African Government needs more time to conclude a regional strategy before it opens its markets to further imports of subsidized products from the EU . 
I should say in conclusion and with regard to Mr Wijsenbeek 's remarks about the problems in the Council , that if some of the Members here had been able to convince their own national governments of this attitude we might be having fewer problems now . 
It is at least heartening that this House is united . 
Mr President , this is hopefully the last sad episode in the sorry saga of the leghold trap , where we have seen the strongly held view of the Parliament , elected by the people of Europe , overruled by the Commission in the interests of international trade deals . 
The victims are the fur-bearing animals of North America , Canada and Russia who are cruelly killed so that rich women in the West can wear their skins . 
There is no justification for this . 
The Socialist Group fully endorses , as before , Mr Pimenta 's excellent report calling for a rejection of the agreement on the grounds clearly set out in his report . 
The agreements were wrong before , they are still wrong and we see no reason to change our mind . 
This agreement with the USA suffers from the same deficiencies as those we previously rejected with Canada and Russia , and it is even weaker as Mr Pimenta shows in his report . 
It is also unlikely that it can be monitored and properly implemented because the powers vested in the state governments in the United States , who are not signatory to the agreements , mean that they will not properly implement it . 
We believe that the Commission has taken the wrong path since it refused to implement the regulation of 1991 at its due date of 1996 . 
We intend to stick to our guns because we believe that we are right and we can only hope that this unsatisfactory situation does not occur again . 
We also hope that it will underline the need to strengthen Article 20 of the GATT . 
It is outrageous that European legislation is being corrupted in this way . 
I do not believe that these weak agreements will prevent one single bit of cruelty to fur-bearing animals , and therefore they defeat the very purpose of their existence . 
Madam President , as the issue of exhibitions has been raised , perhaps I could ask , through you , that the College of Quaestors and the Bureau look at the whole way in which this Parliament , both here and in Brussels , is used for some of the most ridiculous exhibitions - commercial events which make us look more like a bazaar than a Parliament . 
My group is regularly disrupted , not just by exhibitions right outside Room 100 , but by the accompanying noisy receptions . 
Yesterday there were trumpets and trombones outside our meeting room . 
The place is becoming a circus and it has to stop . 
Madam President , reports like that are very damaging to this House . 
The figures which Mrs Aelvoet is quoting are certainly not a proposal for a salary and she is absolutely wrong to insinuate that somebody in this House is putting them forward on that basis . 
I very much regret that David Martin , who presided over the working group for the Bureau , is not here to explain that situation in public . 
That really is a tendentious view that Mrs Aelvoet has just put forward and it is exactly the thing that does such damage in the media across the European Union . 
We have already voted on A and it has been adopted . 
You really can not go back and check it now that the following vote has been taken . 
That is absolutely unacceptable . 
Mr President , it is against every rule on voting that I have ever heard of to accept a check on a vote that has been declared , after you have taken the next vote . 
It is completely unacceptable practice . 
It is unacceptable for them to realize they made a mistake and to ask you to go back . 
Once you begin to do that , anarchy will reign in this House . 
Mr President , I should like to begin by welcoming Prime Minister Blair to the European Parliament on behalf of the Socialist Group in this House . 
It is a great pleasure to be the first MEP to speak in this debate and to warmly welcome the first British Labour Prime Minister to Europe 's Parliament . 
You are very welcome , Tony . 
It is an added personal pleasure for me to be able to welcome him as my party leader and I very much do so . 
These last six months have been important months in the political life of Britain and its relationship with the European Union . 
It is quite impossible to overestimate the significance of the change in attitude which is now manifest in Britain and which has been evidenced by the frequent visits of your ministers to this Parliament during the presidency . 
We , here , all remember too well , for instance , the arrogant disregard of the previous Conservative ministers for the European Parliament and notably the refusal of the then Agriculture Minister , Douglas Hogg , to accept the invitation and come and explain his handling of the BSE crisis ... 
( Applause from the left ) ... which has had and continues to have such disastrous consequences in Britain and throughout the rest of Europe . 
By contrast , Jack Cunningham , your Minister of Agriculture , made his sixth visit in six months to the European Parliament on Tuesday of this week . 
He has done a huge amount to explain , discuss and engender confidence that , despite the complex problems and formidable cost to Britain , your government would act in good faith to eliminate BSE from the British beef industry . 
His approach exemplifies the change of mood , tone , attitude and substance of your government to Europe . 
That change is clearly having an effect on attitudes in Britain and is instrumental in creating a better-balanced view of the European Union . 
For that above all else , Prime Minister , this whole Parliament congratulates and thanks you . 
When looking at the achievements of the British presidency it is impossible to look at the outcome of the Cardiff Summit alone . 
This presidency is remarkable because of the two outstanding events which occurred in March and May . 
The launching of the enlargement process in March marked the opening of a new era in the evolution of the European Union . 
On our side of the House , we support enlargement to ensure peace and stability on our wider continent . 
We want a prosperous and dynamic Europe and know that can not be built on a Europe where intolerance , extreme nationalism and conflict prevail or simmer just below the surface . 
The successful opening of the European Conference and the bilateral negotiations with six of the eleven applicant states deserve our hearty recognition . 
My group has been critical for many years of the way in which the Council deals with the appointments of the most important political and now , economic , positions in the Union . 
Whilst we all appreciate that the launch of the single currency was , thankfully , in market terms an unqualified success , there was real dismay at the wrangling between heads of state , which was seen by all . 
I suspect , Prime Minister , that as the man in the middle , you share some of that dismay . 
We are thankful that you brought that process to a successful conclusion and that the euro has become a reality . 
Perhaps , when you engage with other heads of government in your informal discussions in Austria , in October , looking into ways to make the Union more understandable to its people , we could urge you to seek a more satisfactory method of securing senior appointments in the future . 
My group is now determined that we will make our relationship with the decision-makers on the euro one of great seriousness and rigour . 
It is our responsibility to perform this function effectively and to ensure that our national parliaments are kept fully up to speed with the accountability which we shall exercise over the Central Bank , its president and executive board . 
Cardiff saw the first assessment of the national action plans for employment drawn up by each government . 
We thank you for driving that agenda forward . 
Frankly , over the past five years we , here , have got somewhat fed up with the excess of words spoken about the need to help the 18 million plus unemployed in the European Union . 
We have heard many of those words here . 
In fact we have generated a lot of them . 
Your election in May last year and that of Mr Jospin in France a month later created the progressive majority in the Council which allowed us to actually move forward from words to action through the creation of the employment chapter in the Amsterdam Treaty , the Luxembourg special summit on employment and the defining of some real shared targets for employment creation . 
Cardiff reinforced the equality criteria of employment policy : support for women , the disabled , ethnic minority citizens and , of course , the long-term unemployed . 
While some national action plans are , without question , better than others , at least we have them . 
We note that the British Government was the first to produce such a plan and this has acted as a catalyst for the rapid and serious production of others . 
Prime Minister , I want to welcome , on behalf of this whole House , what you have just said about the issue which is causing a major problem for citizens and non-governmental organizations throughout the European Union . 
I refer to last month 's judgment of the Court of Justice regarding monies being spent by the European Commission without an explicit legal base for such spending . 
As a result of that judgment , as you know , the European Commission has taken the decision , as one might expect , to cease all spending on the budget lines concerned . 
This means , for example , budget lines for social exclusion , the elderly , sport in Europe , the fight against racism , support for the disabled , public health , anti-personnel mines and , of course , the work of NGOs in the developing world . 
We can all see at a glance that these small but significant budget lines are ones which have been having a significant impact on the lives of some of the most needy citizens in our Union and those whom we seek to help beyond our borders . 
We all share the view that European Union funding should be properly rooted in law . 
That principle has been rightly secured by this judgment . 
I am pleased that you have given your commitment to act to secure a legal base for this spending which you have made clear you have no intention of harming . 
In the remaining days of your presidency , we look to you to ensure that the words ' a people 's Europe ' have some tangible and lasting resonance through this action . 
I want to conclude on the problem raised at Cardiff about the legitimacy of the institutions of the European Union and the desire of the Council participants to bring Europe closer to its people - something which we here very much endorse . 
There is still unfinished work to be done to ensure that the Union is ready for enlargement in the coming years . 
I understand , however , that the Council intended this debate - indeed you said so - to be much wider-ranging than just that unfinished business . 
I also understand the Council wants to look at the nature of the Union 's institutions themselves , at subsidiarity and democratic legitimacy . 
These are complex and sensitive issues which must be faced . 
I have no doubt that the European Parliament will be making its views known to the heads of state before the informal meeting in October . 
I must say as well that for the first time in the living memory of anyone in this House , the European Council has actually taken up our entreaties to deal with the general conditions governing the performance of the duties of Members of the European Parliament . 
During this parliamentary term , this House has been dogged by constant allegations of abuses of expenses and allowances of Members . 
I note that in the British papers this week you are quoted as saying that whilst you will insist , quite rightly , on sorting these out , you want to acknowledge that the overwhelming number of Members of the European Parliament are honest , hard-working people , abiding by the spirit and the letter of our regulations . 
We thank you for that recognition and assure you of our determination on this issue . 
According to the Treaty , we need the unanimous agreement of the Council if these issues are to be solved . 
We are keen to solve them . 
We want the next Parliament to be clear about the shared mandate of its Members , their rights and responsibilities , their privileges and immunities . 
It is no easy task to bring together the parliamentary and political cultures of 15 different countries and create a single shared European culture in this respect . 
But if we , the 626 Members of the European Parliament , can not do that , then we had better give up trying to develop a shared vision of the future for the 370 million citizens of the Union . 
( Applause ) We want to ensure that the Parliament which succeeds us here next June can put this issue firmly behind it and we welcome your commitment to work with us to sort this out . 
Prime Minister , I recognize perhaps more than some others here just how much you have supported a pro-European policy in our party at home and a pro-European constructive policy for Britain in the European Union . 
I thank you , as my party leader , as the Prime Minister of Britain and as the President-in-Office of the European Union . 
I would like to thank the Commission President for his very skilful and diplomatic address . 
However , we are mainly here to talk about the UK presidency . 
We have to recognize that it started with a great deal of goodwill . 
The change of government was welcomed right across Europe , not least in Scotland where the Conservatives suffered total wipe-out at the general election . 
But I would say to the President-in-Office that he should not mistake the sighs of relief for gasps of admiration . 
The greatest asset the Labour Government has is that it is not the old Conservative Government . 
In saying this , I do not want to be grudging . 
We welcome the change of tone . 
This Parliament appreciates the fact that we have had Ministers such as Robin Cook , Clare Short and many others addressing Parliament and attending its committee meetings . 
That is very worthwhile . 
We all remember that handbag that Mrs Thatcher wielded when she banged the table and said : ' I want my money back ' . 
Well , the handbag has gone but the rebate and the claim for rebate remain from the UK , and from Germany . 
In trying to appraise the record of the UK presidency we have to match the rhetoric and the achievement and ask ourselves what we will remember the UK presidency for . 
It departed , with perhaps unfortunate symbolism , from Waterloo Station six months ago . 
It was supremely ironic that the British Finance Minister , Gordon Brown , who presided over that in Brussels could not be the team manager but had to play in the left outside position because he was not part of it . 
We have waited in vain today for an indication of commitment to the cause of the single currency , which I and most of us think is the most important aspect of European integration . 
A colleague , Mr Puerta , also mentioned the too-close association with the United States . 
On the Iraq crisis the hotline to the White House was operative long before there was any thought of calls to the Elysée Palace or anywhere else . 
This Clintonization of policy is regrettable , and I have to mention the disgrace of the secret importation of nuclear waste from Georgia to Scotland . 
The citizens of Europe were not even informed until it had arrived . 
There were also some non-decisions . 
What happened to quota-hopping which was supposed to be sorted out in the British presidency ? 
What about the compensation for the farmers who are desperate at the strength of the pound and are looking for compensation ? 
What do we make of the phrase ' a Europe of nation states ' ? 
Was this a major faux pas ? 
By that I mean a John Major faux pas . 
When John Major talked about the nation states and subsidiarity , he meant that it stopped at Dover . 
Nothing that applied below that level was in his mind . 
It would be unfair for us to accuse Prime Minister Blair of that . 
He has recognized the historic nations of the United Kingdom . 
Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland are all to have their own parliamentary democracy . 
That is a transformation which parallels those of Gorbachev in his day . 
I finish by drawing on an analogy with the World Cup which is on all our television screens . 
The Scottish football fans have got it about right . 
They have been welcomed across Europe for their positive contribution . 
These are the same fans that voted for Home Rule for Scotland in the referendum last year . 
Mr President , I join colleagues in welcoming Mr Blair to Parliament today . 
My only regret is that he did not come here at the outset of the presidency because he will know , as I know , the key importance of working closely with colleagues within the European Community and Union and with Member States . 
It is only through the closest co-operation that we can really achieve the results that we want . 
I am just going to concentrate in the two minutes I have on a couple of points , one about Turkey and the other about human rights . 
To a mild extent I part company from Mr Nassauer but I would wish to draw Mr Blair 's attention to the situation in Turkey itself . 
Of course Turkey must be quite free to conduct its own policy within Turkey and on a bilateral basis with other countries . 
Mr Blair knows perfectly well that there are many shortcomings within Turkey at the present time and there have been for many years . 
In regard to human rights , he made brief reference - and there was not much time - to the progress made with China and I salute that . 
However , I do regret very much what appears to be the sniping which has been going on , on the part perhaps of the Foreign Secretary , against the European Parliament in respect of the many resolutions we have adopted which we think are soundly based on human rights . 
I would like to see a closer understanding between the British Foreign Office and ourselves . 
It is all too easy to pay lip service to human rights . 
I have an article here from the Financial Times about an Amnesty International report which says that far too little attention is being paid to human rights issues in the 142 countries with which Amnesty is concerned . 
I think we really must give this a lift up the agenda . 
Mr President , I chaired that conciliation meeting which drew up the compromise text . 
Let us be clear , at that meeting , where the groups concerned were represented , we had a discussion about whether these two paragraphs on Kosovo and the Middle East would be acceptable . 
As you know , we have two separate resolutions on those issues . 
The deadlines for the resolutions that are concerned specifically with Kosovo and the Middle East were concluded before we had the conclusions for the Cardiff Summit . 
It was only later that , I have to say with full respect to the services of this House , they thoroughly confused everything by saying that these two paragraphs could not be included , and they removed them against the will of the political groups . 
That caused confusion which allowed some groups to believe that they were not in the final text . 
That discussion was held , and there were other Members there who will confirm that . 
I regret the confusion and the fact that we got engaged in bureaucratic politics when it was clear there are new issues on Kosovo and the Middle East in the Cardiff Conclusions that should have been addressed , and are rightly addressed in this resolution . 
Mr President , could I speak partly as the person who chaired the meeting drawing up the composite text ? 
I would like to support Mr Cunningham 's point but we were rather overtaken by the swiftness of events . 
We did not make an explicit reference to the efforts made by Rwanda and the United States and the peace plan that was accepted by the Organization of African Unity in Ouagadougou on 4-5 June . 
I think it would strengthen this resolution enormously if we could make some reference to that and I would support Mr Cunningham if he is willing to draft something . 
The eagle-eyed amongst you might wonder : why these two countries ? 
I have just explained the reason but I apologize if we were less than explicit . 
We should put that right because all of us want to see an end to the conflict . 
The parties , too , have accepted the mediation put forward by these two countries and agreed by the OAU and I think that this House would want to support that , to get a speedy end to the conflict . 
Mr President , this has been a fascinating debate . 
I agree with Mr Teverson that we have had three outstanding reports to contribute towards our understanding of a very difficult problem . 
For Denmark in particular there is an historical dependence which was encouraged by the Danish Government , and any measures to change the balance - with which I agree - should be matched by compensatory measures . 
That is the kind of challenge which perhaps we should bring out and discuss in greater detail . 
I wish to salute Mr Kofoed 's honesty and courage in confronting the problems of the Baltic . 
There is a whole series of matters of detail that he mentions , for example the salmon regime appears to him to be a rather crude regime and does not take adequate account of the sophisticated differences between tourists catching wild salmon and people who catch it for a living . 
He has made a lot of very important points about engine size and bans on catches during breeding periods . 
All these seem to be eminently common-sensical . 
Likewise , Mr Kindermann , with his stress on conservation and reducing the herring by-catches . 
This is extremely important , and I hope we will learn a lot from these reports . 
The one lesson I would like to draw from both of these reports , and also from Mrs Langenhagen 's report , is this : when you listen to what is happening in the Baltic , for example about driftnets , it is very different to what is happening in other areas , such as the Adriatic or the Bay of Biscay . 
I do not see why the European Union should impose one regime on the whole of Europe . 
This helps to convince me even more that we have to have a differentiated approach in the future . 
I thank the rapporteurs for their contribution . 
Mr President , I congratulate both rapporteurs on the work they have put into these very interesting reports . 
Mr McCartin has taken on a rather more thorny series of problems in his report and I congratulate him for addressing them . 
We have a whole series of interlocking problems with the whole question of a free market and the idea of protecting the interests of those who are dependent on fisheries in a particular area . 
I have already mentioned - and I think the Commission took note of it - the whole question of the possible regionalization of the common fisheries policy . 
This is where we have to start looking very seriously at what that means in various contexts . 
When you start talking about local boats landing locally you have the problem of quota hopping . 
There is no case for discrimination on the ground of nationality but a link with the local ports would clearly have to be part of that philosophy . 
Like many fishermen , I am unhappy with the idea of centralizing the ports of landing . 
Certainly in Scotland that has been a bone of contention . 
But I would recommend to the Commission - and I think this is one idea that would be appreciated by fishermen throughout Europe - that it should centralize information about fish prices electronically . 
Fishermen could use radios or other electronic devices to find out where to land their fish . 
I think they would go for that kind of centralization . 
Finally , with regard to Mr Baldarelli 's points on balancing supply and demand scientifically , that would have support . 
The amendments by Mr Souchet of the I-EDN Group are all very sound and we will be voting for most of them . 
The Commissioner will now have heard the anxiety across the political spectrum in this House about what has happened with these legal bases and budget lines . 
But also we - like the Commissioner - have been on the end of the lobby from NGOs , organizations and people who have been supported by those budget lines and now find they are not available . 
The Commissioner has made it clear that the real problem lies with the Council , not with this Parliament and not with the Commission . 
Could he perhaps then join with us in saying that what we need now is a concerted Parliament and Commission line which says to the NGOs and the people of the Union that they can continue to write to us but they should direct their anxiety and lobby the Council and the national governments . 
We in this House can perhaps provide addresses , telephone numbers and faxes of relevant ministers so they can feel the same heat as us . 
Commissioner , we would like your support . 
Mr President , this issue has been debated two or three times in the Conference of Presidents and a very clear decision was taken that we wanted this report to be debated on Tuesday in its present position on the draft agenda . 
It is an important issue and many of us are sympathetic to some of the arguments in the report . 
So I would ask that it be retained in its present position which has twice been confirmed by the Conference of Presidents . 
Mr de Vries came back on what I said , but he should also remember that at one point in a vote taken in the Conference of Presidents , we agreed to remove the report from this part-session . 
Out of respect for the work of Mr Anastassopoulos , we then decided to put it back on , but at a late sitting . 
It may be that others have different views about why it was taken off , but there was a clear decision : firstly , to take it off , and then we agreed that it should go on but at a late sitting . 
To bring it back now is not in the spirit of the decision that was taken and discussed three times in the Conference of Presidents . 
Mr President , I rise to support in particular Amendment No 46 by Mr Ebner , and my own Amendment No 49 , which focus on the rights of historic recognized nationalities within the European Union . 
I am quite convinced that a democratic Europe can not ignore the rights of its small peoples , whether they are the Friesians , the Sardinians or the Valdostans . 
The amendments which I am supporting draw attention to exactly that point . 
But I am not persuaded at all by the argument that the big Member States have to subdivide into territorial constituencies and the small ones can be left out . 
That seems to be quite irrelevant . 
Portugal is a nation-state , but so is Germany . 
What we have to look at is the multinational states such as Italy , Spain and the United Kingdom where we have to recognize the rights of nationality . 
This is something which a sensitive and democratic Europe has to take on board . 
Let me conclude by congratulating the rapporteur on his report , which has set us on the right lines . 
I would concur with Mr Corbett 's point that after a 20-year British veto on a proportional representation system , it is a relief that we are at last within sight of that goal . 
Mr President , I should like to add my congratulations to Mr Anastassopoulos on his report and the manner of the consultation he carried out in writing it . 
The European Parliamentary Labour Party broadly welcomes the report . 
As Mr Corbett reminded us earlier , the Labour Party election manifesto in 1997 included a commitment to introduce PR for the European elections . 
The Labour government has acted swiftly to fulfil this commitment . 
The European Parliament is a representative body , not a parliament from which a government is drawn . 
So the objections to proportional representation at a national level do not apply to the European elections . 
We also acknowledge that the UK 's electoral system skews the balance of forces in this increasingly important Parliament . 
I should say to Mr Watson - who is muttering away there - that the system we have had , and continue to have , in the United Kingdom , and which has preserved our representative democracy fairly effectively for many centuries , simply consists of the candidate who gets the most votes winning the election . 
To return to the report , like all reports in the European Parliament , the Anastassopoulos report is a compromise . 
I suspect there are few individuals or political groups in this House who would support every part of it . 
The European Parliamentary Labour Party has a particular problem and is fundamentally opposed to the proposal that 10 % of the seats be elected in a single constituency comprising the whole of the European Union . 
This proposal will , we believe , have virtually no support among the peoples of Europe . 
MEPs elected on a transnational list would have no contact with their constituents and would be either independents or the creatures of very remote transnational parties . 
Moreover , as the EU expands , the number of MEPs for each Member State is going to be reduced . 
This proposal to set aside 10 % of the seats for a transnational constituency would reduce that still further and consequently further remove the MEPs from the constituents they are supposed to represent . 
With that caveat we would welcome this report , but we can not support the 10 % proposal . 
I should like to thank the Commissioner for her usual frank and forthright way in dealing with these questions which sometimes prompt alarmist comment . 
In addition to the reassurance on the 6 - and 12-mile limit , will she also bear in mind the question of relative stability , since these are the fishermen 's two biggest causes of concern . 
Perhaps she would like to give an assurance , via this House , on both these issues , that the Commission is behind the fishermen and against the scaremongerers ? 
Mr President , it is a fairly small correction , but there is a problem of translation with Amendment No 49 which is supposed to extend the representation of minorities to those covering more than one state - e.g. the Sámi people of Lapland . 
The English version talks about minorities that have ` traditionally settled ' . 
The version I would like is the same as in Amendment No 46 - i.e. ` minorities traditionally resident ' . 
We are not talking about settlers , we are talking about people who are traditionally to be found in a territory . 
Amendment No 46 was originally drafted in Italian . 
I would just like to ensure we are consistent here . 
I also welcome the Austrian President-in-Office of the Council . 
The Austrian presidency has got off to a very good start . 
We appreciate your directness in dealing with our questions . 
What I was looking for was an undertaking from the Council that they will do their best to make sure these measures are forthcoming . 
I take it from what the President-in-Office says now that the Council already has this in hand and , in a sense , has taken over the responsibility , in which case I am delighted . 
We need to know the impact on areas which are going to suffer , including my own . 
Mr President , I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report , which covers a very difficult area . 
The difficulty is perhaps symbolised by the various euphemisms that have been coined to describe closer cooperation , reinforced cooperation or even the forbidden F-word , flexibility . 
The aim of closer cooperation is to allow some States to go faster or further than others provided that this does not lead to a hard-core Europe or override the national interests of other Member States . 
The assumption clearly shared by many in this House that the EU is a one-way journey in which closer integration is an end in itself is a very dangerous and unpopular one with most of our citizens . 
This danger is made greater by economic and monetary union . 
I hope that the fully fledged common economic policy referred to in recital F will involve those countries who choose to , or have to , remain outside economic and monetary union . 
I also welcome the acknowledgment in paragraph 5 that closer cooperation should be a last resort . 
However , paragraphs 10 to 12 cause some difficulty . 
The agreement at Amsterdam that closer cooperation can be stopped by any one Member State for important reasons of national policy was , I believe , a necessary acknowledgement of the concerns that Member States have about this option . 
It seems strange to me that Mr Frischenschlager 's report should call for a reform of this Treaty before it has even been tested . 
I am sure that this ` virtual veto ' , as it has been described , will only be used as an exceptional option in the last resort . 
I therefore do not regard it as the mere theoretical exercise that Mr Brinkhorst described . 
The United Kingdom , for instance , has already shown that it is prepared to allow closer cooperation in the third pillar . 
I see no reason to think that the United Kingdom or any other government will use this virtual veto in the frivolous sort of way that appears to be envisaged by the rapporteur and others who have spoken . 
However , we will have to see . 
With that major reservation my national delegation and myself are happy to support this report . 
Mr President , I should like to start by paying tribute to the life of Chief Moshood Abiola . 
It is an old African tradition that you wait until somebody has been buried and properly celebrated before you resume normal business . 
Unfortunately Nigeria has not allowed us the luxury of doing so , but we should not let this moment pass without giving our tribute to that man who won the election four years ago , against all the odds , uniting north and south , Yoruba and Muslim . 
In this resolution we have got it right by asking in paragraphs 1 and 2 for the speedy restoration of power to the people of Nigeria so that they can take their rightful place as a leader in Africa . 
Mr President , Nigeria has been the scene of a long-running saga of unrest and brutality , and the outlook for democracy and human rights remains highly uncertain . 
The sudden death of General Abacha may just possibly clear the way for a more hopeful future , but that is by no means certain . 
It is to be hoped that some of them will resist the temptation to sidestep the issue for personal advantage . 
I would be interested to know whether the Commission is attempting to monitor the sanctions situation . 
Mr President , Buenos Aires is about working out the rules and implementing what was agreed at Kyoto . 
The biggest political problem we still face is the lack of political will by the United States of America , as the world 's largest emitter of greenhouse gases , to ratify . 
If the US does not ratify the whole thing will fall apart . 
So once again it seems to me that the burden falls on the European Union to work on this political problem and to take a lead in the negotiations . 
We have whole rafts of questions still to be resolved such as : will there be bi-liability in emissions trading ; how will the clean technology transfer mechanism actually work ; what price would the south be paid for its emissions units ; how will carbon sinks be measured ; and how can we avoid trading super-heated air ? 
One could go on for half an hour with these unresolved questions . 
There are fears that emissions trading could be used by the West to avoid real cuts domestically . 
That will simply not solve the problem of climate destabilisation . 
If we simply go round the world trading what we already have , we will get nowhere . 
I would ask any Bangaladeshi whether they are interested in the climate change problem just at the moment with two-thirds of their country under water . 
It is very important that , despite the risk of annoying the US negotiators , we demand some sort of quantitative ceiling on the use of the flexibility mechanisms to ensure the majority of reductions are made domestically . 
The current US thinking on trading prices is far too low and assumes that the United States will only seek to reduce its home emissions by about 3 % from the trend line . 
If that is the case we have to ask if there is the political will to sustain a free market in permits . 
To come back briefly to what Rolf Linkohr said , it seems to me that the European Union does not present itself as a team . 
I do not simply mean the gap between Parliament and Commission , which meant that MEPs last time felt they were trailing around the edges and not being treated in any kind of inclusive way . 
The Commission also has a responsibility to bind in the Member States so that we speak with a much more coherent voice . 
In conclusion , emissions trading should be arranged in such a way as to encourage developing countries , as well as our own , to move away from fossil fuels . 
We have to go with the principle of contraction and convergence over a longer period than set down in Kyoto . 
Madam President , I should also like to thank Mr Mohamed Ali for all the work and patience he has put into this report . 
I do not speak only on behalf of the Socialist Group but also on behalf of the many Muslims in East London whom I represent and who so enrich my constituency . 
The report is timely given the recent unfortunate events which risk creating further conflict between Islamic and Western culture . 
Given the multicultural nature of our societies , we have to try and encourage their peaceful co-existence . 
This is where we can learn from the great philosopher Averroes . 
If only it could be shown in every school and in every community across Community , it would do so much to help understanding . 
It is unbelievable that I had to come here to the European Parliament before I heard the name of Averroes . 
Our children should be introduced to Averroes as a role model . 
He was a courageous and radical philosopher with a wide knowledge of science , sincere in his speech , consistent in his arguments and a promoter of the co-existence different religious faiths . 
And nothing has changed over the centuries ; Salman Rushdie 's books are still burned . 
We have to use Averroes ' legacy to promote pluralism of thought , free speech and respect for human rights . 
These are the essential pillars upon which democracy rests . 
We should insist that this is best achieved by the separation of church and state , which has not been completely achieved in all our Member States ; the establishment of laws which outlaw religious discrimination , something we will take action on in the United Kingdom ; and minimal censorship , with the emphasis always on freedom of expression . 
I particularly like paragraph 10 which calls for the principle of secularism in education . 
However , we have to work for more than just tolerance of other cultures ; we have to appreciate and celebrate diversity in our society . 
We have to condemn the violation of women 's rights connected with extremist Islamic movements and make sure women are aware of their rights , including our policies in Europe . 
We must make it easier for people to learn Arabic as a living language and promote the study of Islamic culture , history and politics . 
The Oxford Centre for Islamic Studies is a very good example . 
I ask the Commission and Member States to study the recommendations and propose action on the basis of this report . 
Once again I thank the rapporteur . 
We look forward to celebrating Averroes Day for many years to come . 
As a Quaestor of this House I am surprised that he had to raise something like that on the floor of the House . 
He , more than anyone else , should know how best to deal with that . 
One has to wonder at his motives for raising it on the floor . 
Mr President , I wish to express my great disappointment that we have moved to this event before John Hume has arrived . 
We notified your Office that we would make sure that Mr Hume would be here in about 20 minutes . 
It seems a travesty that all these words are being said and tributes paid in his absence . 
I bitterly regret that . 
It is a great shame and we would have done Parliament a service and paid one of our Members a great tribute had we been able to say these things to his face , in his presence and give him the recognition and tribute he deserves . 
I do not intend to pay tribute to Mr Hume in his absence . 
I will either do it here , if you will allow , when he arrives or we will do it in our Group . 
He is a member of our Group and we will congratulate him , personally , in his presence , having nominated him for this Nobel Peace Prize . 
Mr President , I hope you will do the same when he arrives very shortly . 
Mr President , as the leader of my group I can tell you now that it is our view that , having raised this issue , it would be more appropriate to have a proper discussion about it in the next plenary . 
Madam President , there was a preliminary discussion of this yesterday . 
After the group chairmen met last night there was agreement among a great many of the groups that we should use the opportunity this week to have some immediate discussion of a political nature in this House . 
Clearly an urgency debate is the most relevant , given that this is not an issue on which we need a statement from either the Council or the Commission . 
Mr President , it is with great pleasure that on behalf of my group I welcome to Parliament the first Chancellor of Austria to hold the presidency of the European Council . 
I thank him very much for being here to take part in our annual debate on the state of the Union and listen to our views about the future of Europe . 
It is , in my view , a sign of the times that our heads of state and government are meeting in informal session to discuss the direction in which Europe is travelling . 
Fine words , but just what do they mean ? 
I believe that a people 's Europe is about peace , prosperity and security . 
If Pörtschach can breathe new life into the vision of a united Europe by pointing the way forward on these three concepts - peace , prosperity and security - then it will be setting a new and relevant agenda for the coming years . 
This weekend we can continue the very excellent start that was made in Amsterdam last year . 
Now , in an increasingly unstable world , economically and politically , it is time to build on the strengths of Europe ; to look at those areas where people increasingly expect us to be active and creative . 
For instance , the need , as has been much mentioned here already , for a dynamic common foreign and security policy , has never been so evident . 
The European Union 's 15 economies , on the verge of the most exciting and innovative monetary venture of modern times - the launch of the euro - are calling out for greater economic coordination to manage global economic turbulence and to stimulate internal growth . 
In that sense as well the moment is right . 
Over recent weeks and months we have seen a desperate need for political leadership in the world . 
With economic turbulence continuing from the Far East to Russia , with increasing pressure on Latin American economies and currencies we have witnessed a paucity of political leadership . 
Japanese politics has been reeling from crisis to crisis . 
President Yeltsin has struggled to keep a government - any government - in the Kremlin and we have all been compelled to watch the personal and institutional trauma of the American presidency . 
It is Europe which is promoting innovation in the global economic and monetary structures . 
It is the euro which is creating a significantly new element in Europe 's favour in that economic turbulence . 
And it is European leaders who are articulating the need for new globalised , appropriate regulation and reformed global structures to give shape , coherence and rationality in the global market . 
But this is also a moment when confidence worldwide is at a low ebb and when many are confused about where and in which direction the global market is taking them . 
It is a moment when we have the opportunity to demonstrate that we in Europe can provide leadership in an unstable world . 
The questions which are crying out to be answered are the same throughout the Member States and the same issues that are demanding answers in the European discussions as well : how to create jobs in a global market ; how to reform the social welfare systems of Europe without denying help and support to those who truly need it ; how to save the environment for the future ; how to deal with the scourges of racism , drugs and terrorism ; how to train and retrain individuals to cope with the challenge of information technology ; in essence , how to create a dynamic , prosperous economy with social justice . 
I believe in a strong European Union . 
I believe that Europe 's institutions need to be effective and efficient . 
We must continue to change , refine and democratise our institutions if we want to establish within the body politic and amongst the Union 's officials a culture of openness and a willingness to conform to the challenges of modern democracy . 
But amongst the people in our Member States , the institutional debate is long past its sell-by date . 
We are bound by their rules of engagement and we are often trapped by a culture of political administrative involvement which is dated and often found wanting . 
So inevitably and quite rightly we will pursue changes . 
That is common to all parliaments , particularly to new ones , such as we are . 
But it is time that we made clear that Europe must not be about building institutions . 
We are often teased and criticised that we have no big idea . 
Europe is a big idea whose genesis and motivation is no less powerful today than it was at its inception . 
As John Hume said yesterday in his moving statement to this House , Europe is the greatest model of conflict resolution this world has ever seen . 
But today the Union has even greater vocation . 
Those who give more than a cursory glance at the global environment in which we are working can not fail to see the significance of the European Union : its ability to act together for its 370 million citizens ; the potential power of its economy with a single currency ; its opportunity to offer a coherent chance to its young through coordinated action for employment for the future ; its traditions of tolerance and openness and its sophisticated social model . 
If all of this can be harnessed with a greater and expanded model of cooperation in foreign and security affairs so that the Bosnias and Kosovos of this world can be prevented - not just stopped once they have begun , but prevented - then we are truly offering something new for the future . 
My group is in favour . 
Mr President , given the fact that this is such a difficult and sensitive issue , I myself might be very tempted to vote for that . 
However , this whole issue is so controversial that it would be better if we did not actually vote on anything in this connection . 
If we accept that Amendment No 1 by the Committee on Budgets was lost , as it was earlier , then we should just accept its loss and do nothing . 
I understand your need to keep to the agenda and your need to get through the business , but perhaps we could have asked Mr Santer to present his report at a later time and taken this item in full . 
We were all irritated that the Commissioner was not here but , by the same token , we all welcome the fact that he has come straight from the Commission meeting . 
I am very sorry that we did not do so . 
Mr President , like everyone else , I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for her hard work . 
I should also like to thank the Commission for making real this proposal for a single framework for culture , reflecting the political will expressed in Article 128 . 
As everyone has said , it is high time for us to have a common approach and coherence and some common goals in European Union cultural policy that add value to the actions that nation states take . 
It is time we give a clear voice for our common cultural endeavour and in this sense I would wholeheartedly endorse what Mr Alavanos has said . 
We could not just sweep aside Ariane , Raphael and Kaleidoscope and we had to reconcile apparently contradictory aims . 
This Parliament , on the one hand , rightly said that we need to support many small projects and operators because we see those on the ground . 
On the other hand , we must have far greater visibility and cultural policy should be visible across all Community action . 
This is very hard when only 17 % of cultural action will in any sense come from this programme . 
As we know , the big cultural money is coming particularly from the structural funds . 
In my own constituency there is something called the Summer University of East London . 
It is that kind of endeavour that should and can be supported under the kind of proposals we are putting forward . 
So we are suggesting a compromise of the best from the past but also that you must put a spotlight on European cultural action by large projects . 
That is absolutely vital and I always say that the European Union can not live by commercialism alone . 
Mr President , I wish to bring to the attention of this House a totally unacceptable and disgraceful attack on the government of Italy yesterday by the Prime Minister of Turkey speaking before the Turkish Grand National Assembly . 
Italy has a clear legal , indeed constitutional , obligation not to return a person under extradition to countries where the death penalty still exists . 
In that context , it must be said that Italy embodies the values of this House and the European Union generally . 
Italy is currently going through the proper democratic and constitutional processes dictated by its constitution . 
Encouraging demonstrations and trade embargos against one of our Member States is , frankly , unacceptable from a country which wishes and aspires to join us in the European Union . 
An attack on the government of Italy in this way is an attack on all of us in the European Union : on the values which underlie this Union , on the solidarity and partnership which is fundamental to European integration . 
Perhaps we could ask the Turkish Grand National Assembly to join with us in seeing this moment not as a threat but as an opportunity to launch the political dialogue , which is the only way to solve the Kurdish problem . 
Mr President , this report is , in my group 's view , of the utmost importance in the development of the democratic legitimacy and the credibility of this House . 
Sadly , that function , which I believe has been developed and carried out in a constructive and progressive manner during this parliamentary term , has been obscured by a barrage of criticism in all our countries in recent years . 
That criticism which reaches a crescendo in our press with monotonous regularity centres on the system of allowances and expenses accruing to Members of this House . 
This is the first time I have taken the floor for my group on this issue in this chamber . 
In the last four and a half years I have been engaged in a continuous round of discussions within my own group and with my counterparts in the other groups of this House to ensure that we can now take the fundamental decisions necessary to solve this problem . 
This , in my view , represents the last opportunity in this parliamentary term to end , once and for all , this most damaging public vilification . 
I for one hope passionately that tomorrow this House will adopt an appropriate package of reforms . 
Let us therefore do what we believe is right , what we believe is defensible and what we believe our citizens will see as reasonable . 
The gross disparity between the salaries of Members doing identical jobs in equally trying circumstances in terms of travel , hours , inconvenience , the disruption of family life and so on , is simply not acceptable . 
In my group 's view it is not acceptable to propose a Members ' Statute which simply pulls together the varying conditions , immunities and privileges of the 15 national parliaments of the European Union , collates them and then calls the result a statute for Members of the European Parliament . 
If this statute is to have some integrity and credibility it must look at the role of a Member of the European Parliament . 
We must define a statute which is appropriate for the work we do , the environment in which we work , the travel which is an integral part of our job and the incompatibilities which result . 
I want to congratulate Mr Rothley for the extremely effective job he has done in this respect . 
I must say that there is probably no single Member in this House who will be satisfied with every aspect of Mr Rothley 's proposals and I conclude therefore that he has got it about right . 
We can not dodge the important issue of a Member 's salary so I propose to deal with it now . 
It is simply a fact that Members of this House should be paid the same salary . 
In any similar environment with working colleagues coming together it would not be acceptable that salaries with such diversities are commonplace . 
It runs counter to all logic and common sense and lies at the base of all our problems . 
The big question has been just what is an appropriate salary for MEPs ? 
Mr Rothley 's average of the salary of all our national parliamentarians is an ingenious solution . 
It has the virtue of being transparent and understandable and my group rejects other formulations as being opaque and opening up the criticism that we are manoeuvring for some super , inflated wage . 
I think this one will come out in the wash , ie it is difficult to predict what the result of the vote in this House will be on this issue . 
Mr Rothley 's proposals in this respect are excellent and I hope they will be supported . 
The other and major section of this draft Statute is that of the incompatibilities and other elements which define our rights and responsibilities , our mandate and independence as Members of Parliament . 
If tomorrow we succeed in producing a draft statute we will have taken a first and major step to solve this long running and open sore . 
It will then be up to the Council to acknowledge the commitment of the Parliament and its Members , to take the very tough decisions which I hope we will do tomorrow . 
Let us hope that in Vienna the Council can do likewise . 
I know how determined you are to get this draft statute through today so I would ask you please to reconsider your interpretation . 
Mr President , first of all , before we take the final vote , I should like to pay tribute to your services and indeed those of the Parliamentary Groups who have made sure that this vote has gone through as easily as it has . 
It is a difficult and sensitive one and I think tribute ought to be paid to those who have actually facilitated it because it has not been easy . 
I would like to ask you to look once again at Amendment No 18 . 
You have ruled that , the compromise amendment on Paragraph No 7 having passed , Amendment No 18 can not be looked at . 
Can I say , as the leader of one of the groups that proposed comprise Amendment No 109 , that we do not believe that Amendment No 18 is in any way contradictory but could be taken as an addition . 
If Mr Cox , on behalf of the Liberals , were willing to accept that , I would have thought that we could put it to the House . 
It is not in contradiction with anything that was in the compromise amendment . 
Mr President , when my group presented that compromise text to you , on behalf of ourselves and the Liberals , we sent your services a letter which I am sure is there on your table . 
It has always been clear that was to be a separate vote , and I would ask you , please , to put it to the vote . 
Mr President , I would like to thank both the President of the European Council and the President-in-Office for their reports here this morning . 
So I want to thank both Mr Klima and Mr Schüssel very much for that and also for the efficiency , the diligence and hard work of the Austrian Government during their first presidency . 
Mr President , in your speech to the European Council on Friday , and again this morning , you expressed your thanks on behalf of Parliament for the way in which the presidency has cooperated with Parliament . 
On behalf of my group , I should like to add my thanks to the many ministers who have attended here and helped and supported the work of this Parliament . 
Particular thanks are due to Mrs Ferrero-Waldner who has been our regular partner here for the past six months . 
We offer our thanks . 
The Austrian presidency came at a particularly awkward time , sandwiched as it was between the British and the German presidencies . 
In the former presidency negotiations were started to enlarge the Union - a momentous event - together with a decision on which countries should join the euro , the establishment of a central bank , arguably an even more momentous event . 
The forthcoming presidency is destined to conclude the Agenda 2000 package which is of immense significance for existing Member States of the Union and for enlargement . 
So the presidency had to steer a path between one set of mighty events and another without having any of that timetable fall into its own lap . 
The Austrian Government is to be congratulated for making sure that the way ahead is clearly timetabled to Cologne and to Helsinki , that the decisions needed are identified and that the broad outlines of many initiatives are set . 
It was never the intention that major decisions which have absorbed the European press in recent days would be concluded at Vienna . 
In particular , it was never the intention that decisions would be made on future financing of the Union . 
Let us be frank and clear about that . 
But it has been possible to continue the debate on some of the key issues facing the Union : the next stage in our employment strategy and a European employment pact . 
My group very much hopes that the initiative which the Council outlined in Vienna will allow us to establish a counterweight to the growth and stability pact which will secure future monetary security in the euro zone . 
Whilst the single currency will have a great impact on the lives of our citizens , employment is even more immediately crucial for every family in the European Union . 
In this respect , my group particularly welcomes the express invitation of the Council to allow those Member States who so desire to initiate reduced VAT rates on labour-intensive services which are not exposed to cross-border competition . 
This was a proposal which was put to the Luxembourg special summit in a report from this Parliament by my colleague Wim van Velzen and which the Council at that stage felt needed more analysis and assessment . 
Your agreement that such an idea could be an important employment generator gives us great satisfaction and we will certainly do what we can to facilitate progress on that in this House . 
Chancellor , I note that in the conclusions the Council pays special attention to the fact that this moment coincides with the 50th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights . 
Indeed , Mr Schüssel mentioned it himself just now . 
The Council is asking the Commission to draw up proposals to counter racism in the applicant countries and invites the Member States to consider similar measures inside the Union . 
I want to commend the Council for calling for action in this very sensitive and important area . 
Perhaps we could ask you to take back to the Council an appeal from us , that it should issue a firm declaration that it will ensure that the European elections will be fought throughout the European Union free of manifestos or platforms which promulgate racist or xenophobic hatred or fear . 
Such a declaration coming from the special summit in March on the eve of the European election campaign would be an important signal of the Council 's serious intent to fight the politics of hate wherever they are to be found in Europe of the next millennium . 
An issue of particular significance already mentioned in this House and one which has absorbed an inordinate amount of our time is the question of the Members ' Statute . 
I want to thank Mr Klima in particular for his willingness to receive the draft statute so carefully developed by our colleague Mr Rothley . 
I recognise , as we all do , that the statute contains elements which will require detailed negotiation but I can not stress how important it is that rapid progress is made if we are to have it in place for the June elections . 
We welcome the fact that the Council considers the draft an appropriate one on which to begin discussion . 
We have our negotiating team ready . 
Please urge your successors to get on with it . 
There are some in this House and many outside who have always argued the cynical case , that we would never get the agreement of the Council to put the need for a statute in the Treaty . 
Amsterdam did that . 
Then they argued that we would never find agreement amongst ourselves on a draft statute . 
Mr Rothley did that . 
They argued that the Council would never deal with it in Vienna . 
And you did that . 
Now they argue that we are deluding ourselves if we think we can reach a final result by the time of the European elections . 
Together we can do that . 
I urge the Council to help us demonstrate that we can now conclude this issue fast and fairly . 
I would like to mention just a few issues concerning third countries . 
The agreement with Switzerland is a particular success . 
It is especially noteworthy that it should have been the Austrian presidency which resolved this problem and demonstrated the value of using the expertise and shared experiences of particular Member States with third countries . 
However , my group is increasingly irritated and disturbed by the length of time it is taking to find a solution to the negotiations with South Africa on the trade and cooperation agreement . 
I know you agree with me but we note that the Council expects that this will come to a conclusion in the next six months . 
Frankly , we must succeed . 
On the day on which the European Parliament awards the Sakharov prize for freedom of thought to Ibrahim Rugova who struggled so valiantly for peace in Kosovo , it would be wrong not to pay tribute to the work of the European Union in working for political dialogue , peaceful solutions and humanitarian support in that troubled part of our continent during the last six months . 
This debate should not just be about the Vienna Council . 
We all know that not every Council can provide dramatic , earth-shattering changes . 
We here are always too ready to demand such results , in my view rather naively . 
So I want to pay tribute to the ongoing work of the Council in which the Austrian presidency can take particular pride . 
I have already mentioned the much delayed agreement with Switzerland . 
Another very big success was the fifth action programme on research . 
For a year this has lain unresolved on the table : a programme which contains the fourth largest spending area in the Community budget . 
It is to the credit of your ministers that agreement was finally reached on this programme as well as many others in the past six months - a six months in which Austria can take pride . 
As you will know , the motion of censure was correctly tabled according to the Rules of this House . 
However , I wanted to refer to yesterday 's Minutes . 
You will note that in Item 7 on the discharge , in the second paragraph after The following spoke during the vote : , the Minutes are quite explicit in describing various people 's accusations of blackmail and , in one instance , in accusing my Group of blackmail . 
However , they do not correctly report that I accused those who were so accusing me of hypocrisy . 
If the word ` blackmail ' is going to be used in the Minutes , my word ` hypocrisy ' must also be used against those who accuse me . 
Mr President , on 17 December immediately after the vote on the Elles report I tabled a motion of censure on the European Commission on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of European Socialists . 
It had been my public position in this House and in the media for some weeks prior to that vote that the decision on discharge of the 1996 budget was a clear statement about the financial competence or otherwise of the European Commission . 
Those in this House who are prepared to declare the Commission financially incompetent must take the only possible institutional step in their power and seek to sack it . 
The motion of censure was tabled by me to demand that those who felt the Commission was culpable with respect to the 1996 budget should face up to their responsibility . 
The next three months are critical for the development of the European Union and for the enlargement process . 
As we move towards the special summit at the end of March , which is charged with bringing forward a common position on reforming agricultural policy , on new rules for the distribution of funds to the regions , and with making sure that the future financing of the Union is fair to all Member States , it is vital that the European Commission is working at its most effective in close partnership , a partnership of trust and confidence , with both Parliament and the Council . 
This House can not extend this crisis into those coming weeks . 
One of the fundamental reasons for the tabling of the motion of censure was to decide now , immediately , whether or not the European Commission is to be able to do its work . 
If it is not , then we should decide so now . 
During the vote on discharge of the 1996 budget in December , the great majority of my group voted in favour because we believed that the Commission had satisfied Parliament in three of the six areas in which we had expressed our concerns and had gone some way in three other areas . 
We were of the view that in some respects the European Commission was simply not able to comply with all our demands , as for instance where there are shared or joint responsibilities with the Council or national governments . 
We had supported the demands of the Committee on Budgetary Control when it postponed discharge in March and asked for further clarification and action . 
This was Parliament acting responsibly and driving the agenda for change . 
With some success to our name , thanks to the work of the Committee on Budgetary Control , and the opportunity to achieve even more in the coming months in the context of the 1997 discharge , the great majority of my Group want the Commission to get on with its work for Agenda 2000 . 
That was the basis for our position in December . 
It must be said that there are colleagues in this House in all groups - mine included - who believe that such is the severity of the problems which was displayed by the European Commission over the 1996 discharge , that they could not grant discharge and they will vote for the motion of censure . 
I believe those colleagues are sincere and I respect them , even if I am of a different view . 
There are others , however , whose motives are more about the smell of an election in their nostrils or a particular domestic agenda to which they are playing . 
So be it ! 
The fascinating thing about politics is that it is not static : it is a dynamic process and moves on quickly . 
A major weakness in our constitutional arrangements which has been revealed by this current crisis is that , unlike executives in almost any other setting , the European Commission has no ability to come to this House and ask for a vote of confidence . 
I listened with amusement to the reaction of parliamentarians on the eve of the Elles vote when the Commission made clear in its statement that it considered the vote a matter of confidence . 
The view that this was in some way bringing undue pressure to bear is surely overly sensitive . 
In any democratic parliamentary process which I know , this sort of thing is part and parcel of normal , robust interaction between the executive and the parliament to which it is democratically accountable . 
My first demand , on behalf of my Group , is that the Treaty and/or Rules of Procedure should be changed to put in place such a procedure . 
In the three weeks since the motion of censure was tabled , things have changed . 
In that time there has been a large number of new allegations which require rigorous investigation and rapid action , as well as continuing press speculation about existing accusations . 
As I have already explained , the motion of censure was posited on the failure to grant discharge in December . 
However , the recent accusations demonstrate the problems which lie at the heart of the current crisis . 
But political differences of that sort are what democracy is all about and we accept that it is part of the battle of ideas . 
It is not a matter entirely of competence either . 
Let us be honest and say that any Commission which has been responsible for seeing through so smoothly the introduction of the single currency , performing the intensely complex and huge task of opening negotiations with six applicant States and keeping another five applications under active consideration - just to mention two unique events of recent days and months - can not be declared totally incompetent . 
It is much more about the ambience , the ethos of secrecy , patronage , nepotism and obstructionism which appears to surround the Commission and its Members . 
It is this wider sense of petty corruption which is doing such devastating damage to the Commission and its officials and it is this which simply must be dealt with . 
I should like to say to President Santer that it has been my view for some time - and I have argued this with him before - that the European Commission is at present the accumulation of 15 national administrative cultures . 
Increasingly these 15 national cultures are creating tensions in working practices in terms of the cultural expectations , norms and values which accompany them . 
Too often they simply do not gel into a coherent whole . 
There is a real opportunity now to grasp the nettle and lay down the parameters of a European administrative culture . 
Such a change would give confidence to the Commission officials , from the highest to the lowest , that they have common rules of engagement in their work , well defined , understood and , most importantly , endorsed , enacted and enforced from the top . 
In that respect this Parliament too has much to gain and learn from such an approach . 
We would have to respect such parameters and bring a maturity to our work of monitoring and controlling Commission spending and policy implementation . 
I accept that in some areas we can be accused of duplicity : moving goalposts once demands have been fulfilled ; using different national norms and values as the gauge and , in some instances , acting inappropriately as judge and jury . 
All of us here agree completely that fraud and corruption is totally unacceptable , even were it to be minuscule . 
All of us here across this House are committed to weeding out abuses , using our powers to expose fraud and bring those responsible to justice in the proper way through the appropriate judicial authorities . 
My group has done more than its fair share in this respect and we will support every effort to continue . 
All of us in this House understand just what it means to be the subject of press campaigns and sometimes vilification on the basis of unproven allegations . 
If we are to demand the heads of certain individuals on the basis of public campaigns before proper investigation is completed , or sometimes even started , then perhaps we should have resigned en masse when the media was at its most vitriolic in claiming that MEPs were abusing their allowances and expenses regime . 
Of course we all recognise that to act on media speculation would be inappropriate . 
But we must also recognise that the lack of a transparent set of rules governing relations between Commissioners , their cabinets and their directorates-general has fuelled claims of nepotism , patronage and financial gain . 
This must be dealt with now . 
I hope that when the President of the Commission responds to this debate he acknowledges the need for immediate action in this area and tells us what he intends to do . 
My group 's second demand is for a set of transparent rules governing relations between Commissioners , their cabinets and their directorates-general before the end of March 1999 . 
My group will not allow individuals , whether they be Commissioners or junior officials , to be tried by the press . 
But I want to make it perfectly clear that if accusations against any individual are proven - no matter how powerful or how lowly , no matter what gender , no matter what political affiliation - we will demand that they be brought to account . 
We do not have the institutional right to cherry-pick amongst the College of Commissioners . 
But at present we do not have such a right . 
It is for this reason that we will not support those resolutions from other political groups which are seeking to apportion blame for all the ills of the Commission on the heads of selected individuals against whom no case has yet been proven . 
Anyway , were we to pick individuals or areas of suspected fraud or corruption , why is there no mention of the common agricultural policy where fraud is well-documented and ongoing ? 
Why no mention of the programmes for PHARE and TACIS where the rumours are as serious and as widespread ? 
If we are to sustain and increase our integrity as a monitoring and controlling body to which the Commission is accountable , we must not be partial in our criticisms . 
There is another important issue concerning the treatment of whistleblowers . 
My group supports the concept of whistleblowing . 
Indeed , we were instrumental in this House in helping to introduce it . 
Any person dealing with a whistleblower has two major responsibilities . 
Firstly , he must protect the whistleblower , and his or her identity , and secondly protect those against whom accusations are being made until they are investigated properly . 
This surely is natural justice . 
In the cause of Paul Van Buitenen both those responsibilities were breached . 
I regret that his personal integrity is now damaged . 
Having spoken to him I have no doubt that he believes he has honest cause . 
I have no doubt either that he has been used by some politicians and by some in the media and , in consequence , he has been abused . 
I note that the dossier which Mr Van Buitenen gave to a Member of this Parliament included information which was already the subject of investigation in Parliament , in the Commission and in some cases before the courts . 
I understand that he has provided other information which contains new allegations which are now to be investigated . 
But had the Commission had procedures and structures which allowed abuses to be identified and followed up speedily and efficiently , then the Van Buitenen case would not have been necessary . 
It is in this area where I believe the Commission is vulnerable and must show great determination . 
The time is right to acknowledge that such is the depth of concern that only an independent review can restore confidence and trust in the way in which the Commission deals with abuses in its own programmes . 
President Santer , in early December , after two discussions between ourselves , you wrote to me offering the opportunity for Parliament to be involved in your management reforms . 
We think that is important and I will come back to it . 
But I would ask you to go one step further and agree to an independent review under the joint auspices of our two institutions . 
Nothing less will give confidence to Europe 's public that everything possible is being done to root out abuses as and when they are identified and brought to attention . 
So our third demand is for an independent review to assess and make recommendations on the detection and follow-up of abuses before the end of this year . 
President Santer , given your offer to this Parliament to be involved in your plans for management reform , it is important that Commission and Parliament produce a timetable for detailed discussions on those plans before the end of this week and schedule a full debate in the final May plenary session here in Strasbourg . 
The aim would be that prior to your promised report to the Council at the Cologne summit in June , you have the advice , participation and I hope the support of this Parliament in creating a Commission which reflects a modern , transparent and efficient management structure and system . 
My group 's fourth demand therefore is that a timetable for negotiations between Parliament and the Commission be drawn up by the end of this week to structure the final shape of the Commission management structure of the future . 
Tabling a motion of censure is not a measure I take lightly . 
It is the most powerful weapon which Parliament possesses . 
But refusing to discharge the 1996 budget is not just the simple technical issue which some in this House are now trying to portray it as . 
In the weeks leading up to the discharge vote , this issue became a major issue of confidence - rightly so , in my view . 
There is very little as important as the way in which the Commission spends public money at a time when public funds are under desperately tight control for reasons which we all know . 
It is simply unacceptable to say we do not trust the Commission with the spending of public money but we are not prepared to do anything further about it . 
The only institutional power which this House has is to remove the entire Commission if we believe the situation is so grave and beyond redemption . 
Simply to do nothing , to fail to respond is not acceptable . 
This debate - and in particular the Commission 's response - is our opportunity to make that judgment . 
Mr President , the first speaker from my group today was supposed to have been Mr Görlach . 
I understand that he has had an accident on the ice outside this building and has been taken to hospital with a head injury , which I hope is minor . 
I ask for the indulgence of the House for the rearrangement of my group 's speaking list . 
Mr President , I would like to oppose that proposal on two grounds . 
Firstly , there is a precedent for this way of proceeding . 
Secondly , this is an eminently political debate . 
We all know that the way in which the resolutions go may well affect the outcome of the motion of censure . 
There is no escaping that reality . 
Mr President , I want to express my welcome and thanks to all those who voted with our resolution this morning . 
In his comments Mr Santer said that this vote and this whole action has reaffirmed the authority of Parliament . 
It is a major success for this Parliament ... 
It is always a shame to see bad losers . 
What the resolution has done is to give us the most extensive reforms ever of the internal workings of the European Commission . 
Had we not tabled the motion of censure that would not have happened . 
We heard Mr Santer 's commitment to carrying through the requests in the motion for a resolution . 
Mr Santer understands that this group and those who voted for the resolution were voting for a stronger European Commission , a stronger Europe , and we will keep him to those commitments . 
To use one of the few political clichés that has not been used this week , the current Commission is drinking in the last chance saloon . 
Mr President , we need to lift our eyes from concentrating only on the fiscal measures . 
We seem to do quite a lot of wringing our hands about the Council 's reluctance to agree an energy tax and other fiscal measures . 
I agree with the Commissioner that it is time the Commission put its own house in order on climate change . 
I want to hear some detailed commitments that this is happening . 
Early in the debates we heard some nice aspirations about sustainable agriculture and I applaud that . 
However , I want to ask the Commission what action it is taking to green its approach to the single market , to the way it is implemented and to the way competition policy works , to the way in which it spends overseas aid , to its policy on trade , to its accession negotiations , which a lot of colleagues have mentioned , and the structural funds as well as the CAP . 
We also need more work on exactly what clean development technology transfer will consist of and the relationship with our overseas development assistance . 
If we can make progress on some of these issues , the European Union could go forward with confidence to set the tone for COPs V and VI . 
Certainly we know that climate change is not going away and it certainly will not go away because of the text that Parliament is going to vote tomorrow . 
The United States is not going to ratify simply because we asked it to . 
This week the Environment Ministers are down in the Antarctic watching how it is melting away , looking at what the problems are going to be . 
Quite simply , intellectual creation is vital to the future of our economy but it is also the lifeblood of our society , be it music , film , photographs , books or software . 
Large telecoms companies will always survive but if we strangle and silence individual creators we will never win them back . 
Blank screens will not enrich our society . 
We have to ensure creators enjoy sufficient incentive and reward for their work . 
A strong system of copyright as proposed by the Commission and Mr Barzanti will ensure dignity , independence and survival for creators . 
Too many continue to scrape together a living in a kind of La Bohème garret . 
Only 7 % of authors in France earn above the minimum wage . 
Let us never forget that . 
I can therefore never support an amendment providing for the forced transfer of rights away from authors to others . 
It is absolutely critical to have exemptions for the disabled , education , research , archives , investigative journalism and libraries . 
Some would argue that there should be fair use without fair compensation . 
Why do we demand of authors and artists what we do not demand of other workers in our economy ? 
Systems of fair compensation through a blank tape levy exist in 11 out of the 15 countries . 
All the UK creators and their trade unions support a blank tape levy . 
All I am saying to British Members of this House is : do not vote against Amendments Nos 34 , 36 , 37 and 41 . 
Allow the creators and others in the United Kingdom to have a fair debate about whether we should have a blank tape levy . 
Let me make it clear that these are not obligatory exemptions . 
Voting for those amendments will not force the British Government to introduce a blank tape levy . 
Let us ensure that out of this we have a cultural rainforest , in the words of our great author Maureen Duffy . 
Mr President , you will remember that I raised that very issue last week in the Conference of Presidents . 
I suggested that , given our insistence that the Commission is more open , there is a very simple way in which we can be in the vanguard of actually demonstrating transparency on this issue , and that is by attaching the declaration of Members ' interests to each Member 's particular entry on Parliament 's website . 
That would immediately demonstrate to everybody that we were both transparent and prepared in the public interest to put our record completely publicly on the website . 
Mr President , there is a good deal to welcome in Mr Barros Moura 's report . 
Whatever Mr Voggenhuber says , EMU will certainly have great political consequences . 
It is premature to expect to see an immediate and fully fledged economic and social union after five weeks . 
There will be great political consequences from EMU which have very often being underplayed or even denied by its proponents . 
Mr Barros Moura is to be congratulated for highlighting those political consequences . 
He is also to be congratulated on seeking to ensure that EMU will not widen the democratic deficit more than is absolutely necessary . 
No doubt it will widen : an independent and barely accountable central bank publishing its minutes someway down the line seems to me to be utterly undesirable . 
However , Mr Barros Moura makes various sensible proposals for ensuring that the democratic deficit is not too greatly widened . 
Nevertheless , I have several concerns about the report and I speak here on behalf of the other British Labour MEPs . 
In particular , we do not welcome the proposal to enshrine the euro-X Council in the Treaty . 
Already four EU members are not actually members of Monetary Union and , as enlargement proceeds , other members will join the European Union without taking on the euro . 
We must be wary of institutionalising a two-tier Europe in the way that entrenching the euro-X Council in the Treaty would . 
We also do not accept the need to harmonise taxes by qualified majority . 
Already , not only in Britain , but across Europe there is great scepticism and concern about the effects that monetary union will have and it can only be a success if it proceeds by consensus . 
To try and force people into tax harmonisation in this way will certainly not help achieve that consensus in the United Kingdom . 
For that reason also , the reference to a federal style budgetary system was decidedly unhelpful : anybody here who knows anything about British politics knows you must never use the ` f ' word in a European context if you are trying to persuade people to get more closely involved in the European Union . 
For those and other reasons the British Labour MEPs will be abstaining on Mr Barros Moura 's report . 
Madam President , alas the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea has a long history , but so have human rights abuses in Ethiopia , as all of us know only too well . 
One can but continue to deplore the fact that international mediation efforts have failed to secure a peaceful settlement , and the two countries must surely share the blame . 
The double tragedy is that the population of the two countries is poverty-stricken and suffering in so many ways . 
This makes it all the more difficult to link development aid and Lomé-related benefits . 
But it may be that a hard line will need to be taken by the EU . 
Madam President , I oppose religious persecution wherever it occurs . 
However the text of this resolution , I believe , is ill-judged and unfair in singling out one country when throughout the region and elsewhere there are many similar cases . 
We should realise that Christianity has flourished in India for 2000 years - longer , in fact , than here in Europe . 
I have been given permission to move on behalf of my group an oral amendment , which is to add to rectial C. the words : ` and applauding the Prime Minister 's speech to the nation on 30 January supporting this and opposing sectarian violence ' . 
The officials have a copy of that text and so will the Socialist Group representatives . 
Madam President , I simply want to express my absolute agreement with the comments made by Mr Cox , not just as regards the outcome of the decisions which he expressed but the reasons which guided the decisions that were made yesterday in the Conference of Presidents . 
He was absolutely correct . 
Madam President , these dates were set by the former German Government . 
I thought Mr Poettering would like to know that . 
Mr President , until today whenever we have raised the Kurdish question , the response from Turkey was that , firstly , it is an internal matter and , secondly , it is a question of terrorism . 
The events of the last days and months , and in particular , the recent demonstrations in Europe have proved that it is an international question with important implications for European peace , stability and security . 
Just as in Northern Ireland , Bloody Sunday created a ready-made recruiting ground for the IRA , the destruction of villages in the south-east of Turkey and the impact of the state of emergency on civilians have only served to strengthen terrorism . 
She and her family live as refugees . 
I want to reject any suggestion that those people , who we all saw demonstrating last week , were nothing but a bunch of terrorists . 
This is simply not true . 
The arrest and forthcoming trial of Mr Öcalan provide an opportunity to demonstrate that even in the most sensitive of trials , Turkey 's judiciary can act in a fair and transparent manner , fulfilling its international obligations . 
However , a bigger opportunity exists . 
Turkey could now move to address the legitimate grievances of its Kurdish citizens . 
I welcome the Council 's statement in that context . 
These are the steps which would convince us that Turkey is serious about its application to join the EU . 
The EU should not try by thuggish pressure to subvert South Africa 's position in what are multilateral negotiations . 
Secondly , I agree with Mrs Oomen-Ruijten that Commissioner Pinheiro has behaved well . 
That does not apply to all the Commission . 
DG VI has been at its protectionist worst and everyone knows that is very bad indeed . 
Mr President , I would like to thank Mrs Pack , and Mr Elchlepp in our group who has helped to prioritise disadvantaged students in the programme . 
As everyone has said , Socrates is a success story . 
Its extension to schools is an incredible success and extraordinarily beneficial . 
I would just like to mention one project : four primary schools , four countries , entitled ` Water in our Culture ' . 
The children have learnt that other countries , cultures and languages exist , that we share aspects of our culture and that we must protect the environment . 
They have also learnt how new technology can help them communicate across frontiers - an absolutely fantastic achievement . 
It is the cornerstone of the People 's Europe . 
I know that Mrs Cresson joins us and appreciates this point . 
After all , that is the real basis for long-lasting peace and understanding in Europe . 
I want to give notice to this House that we shall be seeking to table an urgency on this very issue . 
I hope the rest of the House will join us in putting it on the agenda for this week . 
Mr President , I wish to say , on behalf of my group , that it is important that this issue , which has become a major trade dispute between the United States and the European Union , should not be dealt with on Friday . 
Important as the Friday sitting is , and we all accept that , it is more important for us to be able to debate and vote on this issue when there is a very substantial number of Members in this House . 
Mr President , I am not exactly speaking against it but I am concerned that if we take it on Thursday it will , in any case , be voted on Friday . 
If that is the case I wonder whether it might not be better simply to take it to the next session when we can discuss it at a more appropriate time . 
Mr President , as Mr Martens well knows , we also have an agreement that if there is an issue on the Friday morning that groups feel is inappropriately placed , then we would agree to try and find a better place for it or defer it . 
That has been our position for some time now in the Conference of Presidents and I think if there is clear disagreement by some of the groups that this should be on Friday morning then we should stick with that agreement . 
Mr President , the quarrel between the USA and the EU runs very deep . 
It is no longer merely a question of bananas but threatens to affect EU/US trade on a much wider scale . 
More than that , it could conceivably affect the very future of the WTO and tip the balance away from free trade to protectionism . 
As I said in a letter to the Financial Times this very day , it is a great misfortune that European Union political leaders , including the UK Prime Minister , Mr Blair , I regret to say , have failed to heed the many warning signals and failed to grasp the nettle with the Americans at a much earlier stage . 
For that and many other reasons we support the motion for a resolution . 
It may only be 7 % spread over a year but the information I have received and which I will pass on to you is that a flood of cheap tomatoes , particularly last year , contributed to the loss of some 10 000 jobs in the canning industry , in areas with extremely high unemployment in South Africa . 
Certainly the trade unions and others have been blaming the European Union for that . 
I think that matter does need looking at again . 
On a related matter : as you know , when the trade agreement with South Africa was rejected by the General Affairs Council , France raised the general issue of export refunds as one of its reasons for refusing the deal . 
Can you tell us how confident you are that the meeting of 22 March will endorse the trade agreement ? 
Mr President , it is my view , given that Parliament and its Members have not had a chance to really see the proposal , let alone talk about it , that we should defer the vote until the next part-session . 
In particular , the Committee on Institutional Affairs and the Committee on Budgetary Control should have the chance to look at it and discuss it before it is put to the vote . 
Mr President , it is important to say that , whilst we approved it quite clearly last Thursday - and I added my support to that in the Conference of Presidents - it is not available in all the languages and it had not been seen by Members , even as late as yesterday . 
My Group , I am sure , will add its support to an interinstitutional agreement of this sort , but we need at least for Members to be able to read it . 
I would have thought that Mrs Theato could have agreed to that . 
Madam President , my group has been entirely opposed to the tabling of a resolution in advance of the Berlin summit . 
This House has , over the last few months , spent hours and hours in detailed work , passed by this plenary , on the Agenda 2000 package . 
It is completely inappropriate , in our view , that we should have a resolution adopted in literally a few minutes , by comparison , which in some places repeats and in places contradicts the work that went on for the Agenda 2000 package . 
It was on that basis that we determined to vote against all the resolutions that were put forward in this House other than our own , which determined that we should adopt and abide by the Agenda 2000 package , as per our first reading . 
Mr President , the events of the past week have revealed , perhaps for the first time ever , an expression of ` pan-European public opinion ' . 
And if we ever needed a demonstration of the suspicion with which , sadly , the public across virtually all our Member States view the European Union institutions , we saw it in the collective sigh of relief and even , unfortunately , celebration which could be heard after the resignation of the European Commission . 
It is important to state at the outset that the resignation of the Commission last Monday was not because the experts had found the twenty Commissioners guilty of personal fraud . 
As far as nepotism is concerned , it found only one Commissioner overwhelmingly guilty of favouritism with regard to work which was not within the European remit of the Commissioner . 
It criticised certainly two others for poor judgement in employing friends or relatives whilst acknowledging that the correct procedures for recruitment had been followed , and the work they had been engaged in had been of a European nature . 
We should also be clear that accusations which were being bandied about in this House in December and January against other Commissioners , were overwhelmingly and largely dismissed . 
It is important that this House is grown up enough to recognise that fact . 
However , the report was decisive in its conclusions regarding the loss of control of management by this European Commission ; and it was right and proper that in the light of the conclusions the College took the decision to resign . 
My group now expects the independent group of experts to complete the second part of its report on the structure of the European Commission . 
I give notice that I am concerned about voices I hear arguing that the group of experts have now done their job and should stand down . 
I believe that it could be very convenient for some if the independent group of experts were to be prevented from delving in the required detail into the workings of different Directorate-Generals . 
I therefore ask this House to make sure that the group is given the space to work and that the Secretary-General of the European Commission be asked to ensure that his officials at every level cooperate to the maximum to facilitate the report . 
In my group 's view the second report must contain a more widely-ranging review of the Commission 's culture , practices and procedures . 
We want it to deal , amongst other issues , with how financial contracts are awarded and the procedures for contracts for interim or temporary staff to implement programmes , and to follow up allegations of fraud , mismanagement and nepotism involving staff . 
This report and the one which will follow , is about something quite different . 
It is a procedure and process that is not unknown in any of our countries , in order to look from time to time at the culture which permeates administrations and executives in each country . 
Now is time to look to the future . 
The European Commission is not in the habit of resigning . 
This is , after all , the first time in our forty-two year history that such a thing has happened . 
If we are to demonstrate that the European Union can be different ; if we are to respond to the opportunity of this moment , then we must call on the Heads of State and Government meeting in Berlin on Wednesday this week to designate immediately their nominee for President of the Commission . 
It is quite unthinkable that the European Commission , having resigned , should quietly continue with ` business as usual ' until the end of their mandate . 
We want not just the President of the Commission replaced , but a new Commission in place with speed , properly ratified by this Parliament , using the powers which will be given to us in the incoming Amsterdam Treaty . 
Given this background , the European Council should put forward an experienced , competent candidate committed to in-depth reform , with a clear vision as to where he or she is going , with a programme to get there and credentials which are beyond reproach . 
What is clear , is that the new President of the Commission must assume not just the political responsibility for the Commission , but the political leadership as well . 
This Parliament must also recognise the exceptional nature of this moment . 
We must not allow ourselves to engage in a constitutional or institutional debate about dry procedures and put up bureaucratic obstruction to change , and rapid change at that . 
The impact on European public opinion , if the European Council and the European Parliament were to come together to put in place a new Commission able to demonstrate its commitment to serving the people of Europe , would be instrumental in rejuvenating the vision of Europe . 
Colleagues , our responsibility now is to address three principles to the Council . 
Those are the principles at which we should be looking in our deliberations over the next two days . 
I am sure those are the principles which the people of the European Union want to see as a result of the crisis that currently engulfs us . 
If we do that , working together , I believe that we have an opportunity now to demonstrate a new sort of future , a new sort of Europe for the next millennium . 
Mr President , with regard to the next amendment - Amendment No 1 - could I ask Mr Cox if he is prepared to accept an oral amendment . 
I would be obliged , if he were willing to accept as an oral amendment : ` for a vote of approval by 5 May or at the latest by the end of the life of this Parliament ' . 
This would allow us a bit more flexibility . 
Mr President , it seems entirely logical that this report , which is dealing with the enlargement of the European Union , should be taken with the pre-accession reports on Wednesday . 
We would ask that it is brought forward and taken at the same time 
Mr President , on behalf of my Group , I wish to welcome Mr Prodi here today . 
His nomination by the European Council came swiftly and decisively in the wake of the resignation of the present Commission , and my Group welcomed the speed with which the Council responded . 
We had urged the Heads of Government in Berlin to act quickly to end the uncertainty and confusion which followed the unprecedented resignation of the 20 present Commissioners . 
We welcomed the Council 's clear understanding of the political nature of the moment and of the opportunity it offered to create a new relationship between the European Union institutions and its citizens . 
It could not have acted more quickly and , it has to be said , that it acted with uncharacteristic speed . 
Mr Prodi 's statement to us here this morning is the beginning of our ratification process of the new Commission . 
My Group wants the new European Commission to come into office as soon as possible . 
However , we must find a way around the problems . 
To carry out our role now with regard to the next Commission , we may have to put our own parliamentary calendar and personal diaries under considerable strain . 
So be it . 
The conclusions of the Berlin Summit asked this Parliament to deal with the nomination of Mr Prodi and the new Parliament to deal with the ratification of the entire new Commission . 
We insist , however , that the ratification of the next President of the Commission must be done rigorously , seriously and properly by this Parliament . 
I welcome very much Mr Prodi 's consent to come here today and begin that process in that spirit . 
The new Commission must have clear direction , a firm political leadership which is open , it must practise genuine transparency and partnership with the European Parliament and not just pay lip-service to those values . 
None of us here underestimate the problems and challenges of creating such a European Commission . 
However , I want to make clear to Mr Prodi today , on behalf of my Group , that if the next Commission makes a genuine attempt to reform with the courage and vigour which he has expressed this morning , then it will receive the support of my Group . 
Some in this House welcomed Mr Prodi to Parliament ; some in this House seem determined to play solely national electoral politics with this issue , ignoring the importance of the moment for Europe , for its policies and for its people . 
Those concerned for the evolution of this House as the real democratic voice of Europe 's people will work together to enhance its role and its rights , which is what our citizens are waiting and watching for . 
My experience during the last few weeks campaigning in Britain has been that , for the first time ever , people know that the European Parliament exists as a force to be reckoned with - not just the subject of myths about curly cucumbers and curved bananas - but a body which has delivered objective evidence through the report of the Committee of Independent Experts and then acted on it . 
My Group takes considerable pride in our role over recent months . 
We believe that we have acted in the best traditions of parliamentarians : responsible , exercising leadership and acting with integrity . 
You have demonstrated your ability to put together a reforming government and develop a consensus with all sectors of Italian society , to ensure that Italy was able and ready to enter the first wave of the single currency . 
In this you have confounded the sceptics . 
Hopes in this Parliament of just what you could achieve with those formidable skills as President of the European Commission are high . 
I believe , therefore , that when you come to this Parliament next month , we would like to hear some clear idea of the direction you will take on two fronts . 
It must be said that you began that statement in a very clear and very strong way here this morning , and we very much welcome that . 
Firstly , given the trauma which led to the collapse of the present Commission , we expect to hear a clear commitment - not just to implementing the programme of reforms already agreed by this Parliament and the current Commission in January and the subsequent agreement on the independent investigatory body OLAF - but to further and deeper reforms of substance , in particular ( and I was glad to hear you mention it ) with regard to the acceptance of political and personal responsibility for work done by officials at whatever level in the European Commission . 
We also expect that you will give due account to the second report of the Committee of Independent Experts and work with us in Parliament to examine , assess and implement the necessary reforms . 
Secondly , for my Group , the real substance of the programme of the European Commission is political . 
We understand that , if your appointment is ratified , you will not be able to present a full political programme until you have negotiated with the governments on their nominations to the Commission under the new rights given to the President of the Commission by the Amsterdam Treaty . 
However , for my Group the political content of the programme which will be produced by the new Commission is crucial . 
Last week when you visited my Group , I presented you with our objectives for the next five years in the form of our manifesto for the European elections . 
From this you will see that our agenda is for jobs , training for jobs , protection of the environment , the fight against social exclusion , the need to protect the health and safety of our citizens in a world now having to deal with issues like BSE and genetically modified foods , the struggle against cross-border crime , working together for a stronger Europe in the world and carrying out the necessary reforms to ensure that we can enlarge the Union at the earliest possible moment . 
We will judge the European Commission to be established in the coming weeks on both its political programme and its programme for reform . 
I for one welcome your human and intelligent development of your thinking here this morning - economic , cultural , social , based on peace . 
I think all of us here very much welcome that . 
For this to happen there has to be agreement between the Council and Parliament on the process . 
The sensitive balance between Member States and the institutions of the Union can not be jeopardised by precipitous action which could damage the process of European integration , in which respect for differing political cultures and democratic practices are paramount . 
In this respect , you , Mr Prodi , have already been unanimously nominated for the office of President of the European Commission by all the Heads of State and Government in the European Union . 
You do not come to this nomination through any defining electoral process . 
However , one of your great strengths is that you bring with you a great experience of success at consensus building . 
It is in that context that my Group very much welcomes the statement you made today that , whilst , of course , you will engage with those with whom you are politically aligned - as we and the Commissioners have always done - we welcome your clear statement this morning that you will not stand as a candidate to this House . 
We might have expected that , with just over three weeks of the life of this Parliament left to go , we might be on the gentle slope towards an election . 
Usually parliaments ease their way out or drift away as legislation peters out and parliamentary life comes to an end . 
In the last week of the last parliamentary term , in 1994 , we had to mobilise all outgoing Members to vote on the enlargement of the Union . 
Mr Prodi , the programme you develop after this debate and your discussion tomorrow evening with the European Council represent an important step in the development of European democracy . 
Mr President , I wish to make a personal statement as my name has been mentioned . 
I want to say that for a British parliamentarian the cut and thrust of party politics which we heard here this morning is actually like manna from heaven and say to those who are shouting at me I actually thrive on it . 
I note that the level of personal abuse towards me from the right of this House has risen as the right 's political fortunes have fallen all across the European Union . 
I can accept that , and the European public are aware that it was the European People 's Party which split from top to bottom in March on the motion of censure in this House , with a majority voting the Socialist position . 
Their shouting and abuse is designed to obscure that fact . 
Finally , may I say to Mr Cox that his statement was in line with the cheap opportunism for which his political family is famous . 
Mr President , a technical directive being is amended and there are many aspects being addressed by different speakers . 
Problems concerning older plants obviously depend on which energy source is used by which Member State , and these vary enormously . 
We know that existing large combustion plants are responsible for about two-thirds of the EU sulphur dioxide pollution and nearly a quarter of nitrogen oxides , and these have very serious effects on health and the environment . 
Therefore this revision is urgently needed . 
I very much favour trying to move to more cogeneration , as other Members have mentioned . 
However , as rapporteur on air quality , I wish to concentrate on two main aspects . 
The first is covered in Amendment No 1 which links what has been done in this directive to the still-awaited long-term ozone strategy . 
The aim of this must be to bring harmful emissions from these plants in line and to below the level of critical loads . 
If we fail in this , we are doubly failing , both in protecting the environment and in protecting public health . 
Although we do not yet have the ozone strategy because of the paralysis in the Commission , we know that sooner or later the emissions limit values will have to come in line with it . 
We need to make it plain to the new Commission , when it is sworn in , that the ozone strategy and the national emissions ceiling , that Mr Bowe mentioned , are urgently needed . 
My second point relates to Amendment No 15 , which argues for greater public information . 
This is the same approach we took in the daughter directives on air pollution . 
Some people do not seem to like public information very much but the people who live near these large combustion plants need to be fully aware of whether their health is at risk from increased air pollution . 
I commend them to the House and trust that they will have the support both of the Commission and , more importantly , of the Council . 
Mr President , given this debate - and it is clearly a very important one - maybe a compromise would be to put tourism first . 
Mr President , everybody who has been engaged in this whole issue over the last year understands the enormous pressure under which we have put the services of Parliament in the last few days . 
Personally , on behalf of my Group , I should like to extend our thanks to your services for the enormous help they have given us in ensuring that this vote went as smoothly as it did . 
Mr President , you are acting absolutely properly in maintaining the dignity of this House . 
Mr President , I and the House have listened extremely carefully this morning to Mr Prodi 's opening statement . 
I thank him very much for the thoughtful and intelligent approach he took to the opening of this debate . 
That we are here today looking at the ratification of a new President of the Commission , six months before it was due according to the timetable , is a reflection of the changing roles and expectations of the European Union . 
We have seen the EU dealing in areas and working on issues which now affect the lives of the citizens of the European Union in a very direct way : the launching of the euro , soon not to be just a tool for banks and institutions but also the coins and notes in the pockets of our citizens and , this week , the coming into being of the Amsterdam Treaty with its changing emphasis towards policies that affect people and in particular job creation . 
When you are talking about jobs and the money in people 's pockets , you are talking about issues that very clearly affect the lives of every citizen of the European Union . 
It is no coincidence therefore that there has been a greater concentration on the systems of governance in the European Union . 
These systems were found wanting and they have failed in the last few weeks . 
We need to see demonstrable change . 
The next Commission must reflect a new approach to structure and responsibility , not for the sake of form . 
We are not just looking for a Commission that looks different or pays lip service to difference . 
We want a European Commission that is different and will deliver policies for people . 
We expect that Commission to be different , to reflect the real work to be done . 
If I may say so , we do not want a Commission with structures and portfolios that simply reflect a division of the spoils between twenty Commissioners for whom the President must find a role and must find a job in order to make them look as if they are all important . 
We want a serious attempt to create a dynamic approach to delivering policies for the people of the Union . 
After today , Mr Prodi , you and what you will do will be scrutinised as never before . 
What appointments you make to your office , the multinational nature or flavour or otherwise of your staff , the gender balance , all these will assume an importance quite disproportionate to their actual significance . 
Your ability to demonstrate that you have had a role that befits the President of the Commission in deciding who should be in your Commission and what their portfolios should be - all these things will give your presidency and your Commission its opening strengths and , indeed , could well give them its opening weaknesses . 
I was glad that today you concentrated very much on the broader approach to your political thinking and programme for the European Union . 
In your last intervention in this House - which we all recognised was a very preliminary one , indeed you said so yourself - you made a largely economic presentation . 
Today you have looked at a much broader scope of policies with which you will be seeking to deal . 
We have had a flavour of some of your ideas , for instance on foreign and security policy , on home and justice affairs . 
I very much welcome your thinking in these areas . 
Your emphasis on the competence of Commissioners and their ability and willingness to act as a team is very much to be welcomed . 
Your emphasis on structuring the portfolios on the basis of delivering policies and your undertaking on transparency and openness are also very welcome . 
Of course I do not need to say that we have had such commitments before but we take you at your word that you are serious about these . 
I have a criticism and I would appreciate your comments in your concluding statement . 
Your speech today talked very little of people . 
You mentioned employment but you did not talk much about the need for the fight against social exclusion , the struggle for a fair and just Europe for all our citizens , the need to support Member States in the eradication of poverty , in particular amongst the young and the old in our societies , the need for equal opportunities for men and women , for black and white citizens of the European Union . 
Mr Prodi , your humanity was clear in your speech . 
Your commitment to peace on this continent is to be commended . 
I would have liked to hear a bit more about your belief in a multi-racial , multi-ethnic , multi-cultural Europe . 
I hope you can reassure us of this in your conclusion . 
By way of conclusion , for me , as a Londoner , this weekend the importance of support for a Europe of fairness and justice for all our citizens , the need for us to be committed to the fight against intolerance , racism and hatred , against those concepts , was brought very graphically and tragically to our minds . 
This European Union is about a vision for the future . 
The big issue for our continent , for our economy , is also about people . 
If you are able to combine these elements successfully with a new Commission structure and ethos , you will have our support . 
Mr President , on behalf of the Socialist Group , I should like to join with Mr Martens in paying tribute to your work , to your profile and to your commitment as President of this Parliament over the last two and a half years . 
The last six months have been the most tumultuous six months of the life of this Parliament . 
You , Mr President , have ensured that Parliament 's role in this entire period has been clear and has been effective . 
I want to pay , in just a few words , particular tribute to your sensitivity and your human qualities , if I may . 
You have been accessible to Members of this Parliament . 
It is a coincidence , but perhaps a fortunate one , that this very week when we are in the last week of the life of this House , we are also in the first week of the life of the Amsterdam Treaty . 
It is fitting that it should be like that and we will notice the change to the rules that were made to bring in the Amsterdam Treaty . 
Yesterday , for instance , during the vote , 39 reports were dealt with in one and a half hours which is probably something of a record . 
Madam President , clearly , as Mr Cox has mentioned , the amendment tabled in my name on behalf of the Socialist Group was tabled by the Socialist Group . 
As the leader , I had my name on it , but for the record , I voted against it . 
Madam President , I should like to put on record my disgust as well at what has happened . 
Madam President , I am here to speak on behalf of millions of women football fans . 
I welcome Commissioner Kinnock 's reassurances . 
The release of the tickets was really too late for most people to be able to take up those opportunities given their work commitments . 
What we need , I believe , is some joined-up thinking . 
One of the main objectives of the EU institutions is to ensure that citizens of all EU countries are treated fairly and equally . 
Football is a passion that unites all the countries . 
What better way for us to change our image and connect with the people of Europe than to say that we take football as seriously as we take any branch of commerce . 
Mr President , this is a timely debate . 
It is two weeks too late . 
The UK , US , New Zealand , Canada , Philippines and Thailand have now committed manpower and material to the peacekeeping force . 
They are too late . 
Since the East Timor referendum , up to 10 000 people have been slaughtered for voting for independence . 
300 000 , including children , out of a total population of 800 000 have been displaced and made homeless , hiding without shelter , food and sanitation in the jungle . 
What surprises me is that the international community and the United Nations never manages to learn , to anticipate from the experiences of Somalia , Rwanda , Bosnia , Kosovo , and now East Timor . 
What is wrong with us ? 
The international community , time and time again , is called upon to clean up the mess left by brutal tyrants , so-called ethnic cleansers and the genocide of dictators . 
Under the Montevideo Convention , we are compelled by international law to recognise these brutal regimes as sovereign independent states . 
Perhaps we should now reconsider this definition and encourage an international debate on whether democracy such as ours should give equal recognition , treatment and respectability to regimes throughout the world which refute democracy and the rule of law , human rights and good governance . 
Surely the time has come now to differentiate , to redefine , to tighten up the criteria as we do now in giving aid . 
If good governance is a fundamental prerequisite for development aid , why should good governance not also be a fundamental criterion for international recognition , bilateral relations and trade development ? 
The IMF has recognised this recently in Indonesia and it is time that the European Union ' s Member States also recognised it . 
Inter-state and , more recently , inter-regional alliances both within the European Union and with partners outside is an initiative we can pride ourselves on developing enthusiastically . 
Funding schemes such as INTERREG , PHARE and others are a clear expression of this ideology . 
This initiative of itself can not be expected to resolve overnight , as it were , the problems of economic deprivation in the new South Africa . 
It has to address massive domestic problems including social integration , chronically poor housing for the majority of the population , massive unemployment and an economy that produces only 0.46 % of world GDP . 
The concern of most South Africans is that our initiatives take so long before coming to fruition . 
We must ensure that all support schemes can be expedited far quicker than at present . 
An agreement that provides for the full liberalisation of 95 % of South African exports to the EU over a ten-year period with tariffs eliminated on 86 % of its industrial goods is a very long time to wait for a country facing such acute economic and social problems . 
Inter-regional relationships must also be fostered with South Africa , a country of regions . 
The role that the regions and historical nations of the EU can have in building economic and cultural links with the diverse regions of Africa is vital and should be an essential prerequisite to its future prospects , as will the elimination of its debt . 
The decision of the World Economic Summit in Cologne this year to cancel $ 100 billion of third world debt was important in this regard and should be a catalyst for further action by all EU countries , not just the few . 
Financial partnership is not the panacea that will cure the problems of South Africa as a whole . 
A whole raft of issues that are crucial to the task of ensuring that South Africa is in a position to maximise the opportunities afforded by this agreement now need to be explored in a holistic way . 
The EU should be looking to develop strategies and training programmes to ensure that the regeneration of the South African economy is sustainable in the long term both economically and environmentally . 
I welcome this initiative . 
Mr President , this is my first budget . 
I should like to begin by thanking Mr Wynn and Mr Bourlanges and the other two rapporteurs for simplifying a very complex process for me . 
In that spirit , we should be trying to bring the European budget closer to the electorate . 
It is crucial for the citizens of the EU to know what their stake in the EU ' s policies and operations really is , what they are paying and what they are paying for . 
Increased transparency will be the key to the future success of all EU institutions . 
That means assessing every budget line to see how it benefits the citizens of Europe . 
Given the commitment in the Treaty of Amsterdam to incorporating the interests of consumers into all other policy areas of the EU and the derisory level of the consumer budget , which stands at a quarter of one percent of total EU spending , there is a need to begin by making sure that valuable programmes such as the school milk scheme are safeguarded . 
The reason I feel strongly about this budget line is that it has an impact on the long - and short-term health of people , it addresses social deprivation issues and it impacts on the economy and jobs in my region . 
I do not have any difficulty with the reform of the CAP if it means cheaper and safer products for the consumer . 
I know that people are concerned about paying for subsidies that increase prices for them as consumers . 
I welcome this . 
I must say that I am disappointed that the Council is not here because I would like to know if they will support this . 
The Commission , in estimating spending , should look at funding in its totality . 
I call on Members to support this endorsement and amendment in Thursday ' s vote . 
Mr President , I would like to touch on one aspect of cultural diversity needing support : minority languages . 
Europe should take pride in its linguistic diversity . 
The European Union has done much to promote its wealth of cultures and I congratulate Commissioner Reding on her work in this regard . 
Many in this new Parliament might not remember that in May 1998 budget lines for minority languages were frozen because they had no legal basis . 
Will the Commission now guarantee that a legal basis for these projects is introduced ? 
The situation of 1998 can not be allowed to arise again . 
Lesser-used languages must be granted the funding they deserve , otherwise excellent innovative projects - drama , the translating of literature following the end of the Ariane project - the teaching of languages and so on will all suffer . 
As a Welsh speaker , I have seen the significant benefits of European funding but also the threat to many excellent projects when financial support is withdrawn . 
As the budget has already been frozen for 16 months it is unlikely that any schemes under the Culture 2000 programme will come into being until 2001 . 
It is crucial therefore that the Commission uses its preparatory measures to ensure that current projects do not now suffer . 
Let us hope that Commissioner Reding ' s words become reality and that every language is respected and promoted regardless of the numbers who speak it . 
The group has provided invaluable information and support , particularly on the impact of European programmes on women ' s lives . 
We have also been able , as individuals , to access information , evidence and analysis when necessary . 
The material produced by the lobby is high quality , as are the forums , seminars and conferences which they organise . 
A clear example of this was a day conference involving women from all over the EU which was held in Cardiff to coincide with the summit during the UK presidency . 
It is clearly inadvisable to distribute the funds between a variety of organisations which would , by definition , fail to identify the core objectives in terms of giving the service which EWL can so uniquely provide . 
The agenda pursued by EWL is clear and incontrovertible - to promote the concerns , priorities and interests of women . 
The accusations which have been made , that the EWL is a `` single issue '' body , is simply not true when it represents such large numbers of women through its 3000 member organisations . 
I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur , Mrs Haug , for addressing some of the key problems in the current system of own resources . 
In her report , Mrs Haug is right to check the Commission ' s arbitrary changes introduced through the back door , via a mathematical operation relating to the ceiling on own resources . 
Now in the interinstitutional agreement , the Council entered into a binding agreement with the European Parliament on the percentage of GNP , i.e. 1.27 % . 
The Commission is now saying that this means cash value of 1.27 % . 
The rapporteur emphasises that we should be striving to establish a more equitable system of financing the EU . 
The Community budget should have a fair system of revenue collection . 
The traditional own resources , for example , are a systematic source of inequitable burdens on Member States and , as has been said , are prone to fraud and excessive bureaucracy . 
I am speaking here on behalf of the Socialist Group , but if I were speaking as a British member , I would question particular references to the British rebate . 
I believe that a really serious attempt to reform the Community ' s finances should start by making sure that all Member States get their fair share of expenditure . 
Until this happens , attempts to reform the own resources system will not improve the situation . 
Therefore , what I want to see is a proper reform of the EU ' s finances for the future . 
But reform can not be focused on single issues such as the rebate and I feel very uneasy about discussing this issue at this stage in the new Parliament . 
It is too early to be making decisions on this subject and setting things in tablets of stone when all the facts are not in front of us . 
May I begin by congratulating Mr Schwaiger on an excellent report . 
The Seattle round is being called the ` development round ' for the millennium . 
I represent the south-east of England , one of the richest parts of the European Union , having been born in a developing country in Asia , one of the poorest parts of the world . 
I hope I can therefore span , understand and recognise the aspirations of the developed world , and of the developing world , recognising the enormous benefits of global free trade whilst also recognising the imperative need to manage the transition , to enable and empower the developing world to be an equal partner in globalisation . 
The multilateral trading system was born in Havana in 1948 as the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs . 
Eight rounds of trade globalisation have helped to promote global prosperity . 
Since 1951 , world trade has grown 17-fold , world production more than quadrupled , world per capita income doubled , average tariffs dropped from 40 % to 4 % in industrialised countries . 
However , globalisation must be a win-win situation . 
There should not be winners and losers . 
It should look at the impact of liberalisation on investments , competition rules , unfair subsidies , poor labour standards , environmental protection , intellectual property rights , trade facilitation , government procurement , improved access to agricultural markets , improved access to commercial markets including services , consumer protection and capacity building . 
We can send a clear message to Seattle that this is the single contribution that this House and its Members can make to world global trade . 
The aims of the Convention account for the unprecedented international reaction : measures to be implemented in international law to protect the rights of the most innocent , most vulnerable of the world 's citizens . 
The draft resolution which we have voted today seeks to ensure that the elements enshrined within this convention are protected in other legal bases and frameworks . 
In doing this , we are seeking to be a voice for the voiceless , and protect those who are unable to protect themselves . 
Children must be protected by those who have their interests at heart . 
We must emphasise , therefore , the role of the family in safeguarding children , especially parents . 
The state , in its attempt to provide a legal basis for the protection and treatment of children must bow to the pre-eminent right which parents have in protecting , raising and safeguarding their children . 
We must ensure that the family , to quote the Convention on the Rights of the Child , is ` afforded the necessary protection and assistance so that it can fully assume its responsibilities within the community ' . 
