Mr President , it is particularly pleasing for me to make my first speech in the European Parliament on what is regarded as the most important issue within that part of the United Kingdom that I represent in this Parliament , namely Wales . 
A major part of Wales , as you know , has been granted Objective 1 status under the Structural Funds programme . 
It is quite clear that many people within Wales are looking to the European Structural Funds programme to alleviate some of the great difficulties that we undoubtedly face . 
We are looking , therefore , within the Structural Funds programme not just to see industrial restructuring but also to see a wider improvement in the whole of the economic base within the Principality . 
That is why I want to highlight some of the issues that I believe the Commission must have at the forefront . 
We look to the Commission to deal with points in relation to additionality . 
We are dissatisfied with the fact that those figures seem to have been in some way hidden within UK figures . 
We look to the Commission also to ensure that there is matched funding for projects . 
We look to it to challenge the UK Government , to ensure that the private sector , which surely must be providing the major impetus for Structural Funds expenditure , is involved in the planning stage . 
Finally , we ask that the Commission ensures that Structural Fund monies are spent in a way which is transparent . 
Too much of what takes place within this Parliament is not transparent . 
This is one area in which I believe the Commission can be a very great friend to Wales . 
Mr President , for British Conservatives the efficient and uniform application of European competition policy is at the core of achieving an effective single market across the whole of the European Union . 
During my six months as a Member of this Parliament , I have become acutely aware of the determination of many Members to drive forward what is described as the European project . 
We daily hear the need to promote a wider and deeper Europe . 
But all this , in effect , is so much rhetoric when we look at the national , regional and local obstacles which continue to block the operation of a true European single market . 
That is the context in which I want to consider the Commission 's proposals . 
I want to congratulate him , sadly in his absence , for the thorough and rigorous way in which he has undertaken the preparation of his report - and also for putting up with my being such a thorn in his side ! 
He mentioned earlier that the report was carried with a significant majority but not with my support . 
So although I may not share his conclusions , I believe he has illustrated in his report many of the issues which the Commission must address . 
The first is the potential for renationalisation of competition policy . 
I know that the Commission is set against this , but the potential exists . 
I asked Commissioner Monti the other day what happens if he proves to be wrong and there is an effective renationalisation . 
We find that the European Court is not able to provide us with interim measures in a certain dispute that we have with France at the moment , in which we have the support of the Commission . 
I ask the Commission what can be done to speed up implementation in this particular area . 
I must declare an interest as a lawyer but also as a former competition minister in the United Kingdom . 
We all have , as it were , our histories to live with , but it is important that business has legal certainty . 
I would also ask the Commission whether an analysis has been undertaken of the implications of this change for business : a cost-benefit analysis of the sort that is now becoming so much more European policy . 
But I really feel that , in the circumstances , we want to know what the implications would be for business . 
Finally , we , as British Conservatives , are looking for a change in direction , towards the development of an independent competition authority . 
I would like to hear what Commissioner Monti has to say about that . 
Mr President , this , as Mrs Theato said , is a critical report . 
It is a report that has been proposed by the Committee on Budgetary Control and it is an own-initiative report . 
Some of the measures we have put in place in the past have not been honoured by some of the Member States - and let us not forget that the Member States are responsible for implementing about 80 % of the EU budget . 
A lot of them have not signed up to or not ratified the Convention on the Protection of Financial Interests , and therefore it was clear that something more radical needed to be done . 
We need to take this responsibility seriously . 
We need to be able to prosecute people who commit fraud against the European Union . 
The question is : who prosecutes ? 
We need also to be sensitive to the concerns of Member States . 
But the discussion needs to begin and we are therefore calling on the IGC to start discussions . 
Of most importance to Parliament , as the guardian of the budget of the European Union , is how to deal with people who work within the European Union institutions . 
At a time when we are looking at the whole reform process it is critical that we send the right signal . 
People need to understand that if they commit fraud they will be prosecuted , and that is not the case at the moment . 
The whole question as to whether we have the legal authority to do this has been outlined by Mrs Palacio . 
I should like to make clear that my group is going to propose an amendment deleting the detail of how the Commission should tackle this question . 
It is right for us to have a focused report which is what Mr van Hulten has produced . 
I should like to thank Commissioner Kinnock for all his efforts so far . 
It is clear that this needs to be developed at all levels and it needs to recognise the needs of each level within the Commission . 
It is clear that we need to see a change in the Financial Regulation . 
This is natural elsewhere but it seems to be an extremely radical suggestion when it is put to the Commission . 
We can not continue with a situation where incompetence , mismanagement and fraud are costing the European taxpayers money and providing them with a poor service . 
We need a system which provides incentives and promotion and we need to see this promotion based on merit . 
We look forward to reading the full Commission proposal on reform and we look forward to working out the detail alongside the Commission because , unlike what Mr Elles has just said , the Commissioner has made a commitment to discuss it with Parliament between now and 1 March . 
We also need to recognise that people who live in glasshouses should not throw stones . 
The European Parliament has not exactly been clean in its approach to things throughout its history . 
We have a long way to go before we are perfect ourselves . 
I hope that the European Parliament will be hanging onto the coattails of the Commission in this reform process . 
Finally , can I say that the Commission needs to work on its relationships with the public . 
European taxpayers need to be re-assured . 
The fate of the Commission , of the whole European Union , rests on delivery of this reform . 
That is the key issue , delivery of these proposals . 
Mr President , I welcome the EQUAL initiative and the report which highlights the need to distinguish between actions to combat discrimination against women and actions to combat discrimination against minority groups . 
Women are not a minority and often suffer double discrimination as members of minority groups as well as because of their gender . 
This is why specific action for women is needed , as well as mainstreaming . 
The involvement of voluntary and community groups will also be an essential ingredient of the EQUAL initiative and the projects . 
The development partnerships within the thematic fields , which are referred to in Amendment No. 22 , would enable even the smaller organisations to play a part in the EQUAL initiative . 
My group will be supporting Amendment No. 22 . 
- Additionality is a major issue too in Wales , which I represent . 
Just last week it was one of the issues that brought about a vote of no-confidence and the resignation of the First Secretary of the National Assembly of Wales . 
As recently as 1991 and 1992 the Commission won a battle with the UK over additionality , at that time linked to the RECHAR funding . 
This led to an agreement being signed whereby the UK Government agreed to introduce procedures to ensure that EU spending reached the areas for which is was intended and was actually additional . 
And yet we still have these problems in Wales and in Scotland . 
Could the Commission look at this particular situation in relation to the agreement that was signed with the UK Government ? 
Can I start by wishing the Commissioner a very happy St David ' s Day . 
Thank you for the presentation . 
The other question I would like to ask is on the audit progress committee . 
This , of course , is welcome , but it is essential it include a reference to the monitoring of recommendations that come from the European Parliament within our discharge procedure . 
Will you be adding that into your audit progress committee ' s work ? 
Finally , the Socialist Group agrees with activity-based budgeting and with responsibilisation and you will be judged , as Mr Prodi says , by your actions , not your words . 
I would also like to thank the Minister and the Commissioner for their statements and I agree with the Commissioner ' s statement ; it is time that fine words were translated into action . 
We all know to what extent women are under-represented in decision making at all levels because we have the statistics and they speak for themselves . 
I agree that accurate statistics too are essential because it is only when we see the figures changing that we will know we are beginning to overcome the problems . 
It is systematic monitoring which will reveal this . 
We can learn from the successes mentioned , not only by looking at the actual numbers of women that were elected , but the effect that has had on the nature of government to illustrate that everyone benefits from a truly representative system . 
Mr President , I would also like to congratulate Mr Blokland on this report which will set Europe-wide standards for incineration , including for the first time emission standards for dioxins and furanes ; this should lead to more competition between different methods of waste disposal , and as a result help bring to an end the transport of hazardous waste across Europe in search of the cheapest waste operators . 
With the predicted increase in incineration , it is vital that overall EU legislation on waste disposal and on air quality is consistent and comprehensive . 
We must look at the whole hierarchy . 
Incineration may increase as stricter controls are put on landfill , but it does not go hand in hand with recycling and environmentally friendly waste-disposal methods . 
Building new incinerators is a costly and long-term venture which in turn has to have a long-term return for the investors , so it would be in their interests for waste to continue to be burned . 
This means that there is a danger of over capacity which will lead to encouraging incineration for reasons of profit , rather than encouraging the reduction , recycling and safe treatment of waste , which is our goal . 
This Parliament must protect the health and quality of life of the people that we represent . 
So we must set the highest possible standards and not make exceptions which will weaken this very important legislation . 
Additionality is meant to ensure that happens and to prevent governments from using EU funding to replace their own aid as this would defeat the object . 
The granting of EU Objective 1 status to West Wales and the Valleys last year was an acknowledgement of the poverty in two-thirds of the country . 
EUR 1.2 billion of European funding used effectively could provide exactly the additional help that is intended . 
But if we look at the government budget to Wales , in practice there will be no more government spending next year with Objective 1 than there is this year before Objective 1 . 
The National Assembly budget which comes from the Treasury remains the same so that in the first fifteen months , at least , of the new programme period there are no additional resources at all . 
The rules as they stand allow this to happen . 
Member States are not legally required to demonstrate additionality at the regional or programme level . 
I agree with the statement made by Commissioner Barnier in a written reply to me when he said that the spirit of additionality rather than the letter of the law on the matter is an important consideration . 
We need the revision of the system and a central part of that is looking at additionality internally in the Member States at the programme level as well as at the Member State level . 
Mechanisms need to be in place to ensure that Member States respect the principle and the spirit of additionality so that funds are targeted and spent effectively . 
So we are asking in this question , Commissioner , for confirmation that this will be done and I look forward to the vote on this debate in April . 
Mr President , can I begin by thanking my colleague from Wales - though from another party , Jillian Evans , for raising this issue . 
I do not think that there is a more important issue in Wales at the moment than the application of Objective 1 funds and it is important to look at the background to the issues that we are currently considering . 
There are two major news stories breaking in the United Kingdom today . 
As a direct result of what I would describe as UK government policy , our agricultural economy has all but collapsed . 
Farm incomes are at their lowest level for a generation and this decline is also hitting the manufacturing sector . 
I do not apologise for saying that the massive overvaluation of sterling which gives the UK Labour Chancellor an electoral war-chest of unprecedented proportions has handicapped every Welsh and UK manufacturer trying to export into the European market . 
I turn then to the central hand of Labour government at work in terms of the European Structural Funds package . 
The unacceptable behaviour of the UK Government over this has already brought about the timely end of the political career of the first Secretary of the Welsh Assembly . 
Sadly , the Structural Funds spending issues have been marked by delay by disputes in relation to matched funding and also in relation to the issue of additionality . 
Lest it be raised later in this debate let me make it clear : this is not a new issue and I share the view that it is an issue that needs to be examined very carefully by the Commission itself . 
I have the honour to be appointed as the rapporteur on the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee for the Structural Funds guidelines 2000-2006 and the committee agreed on that occasion , based on our recommendations to the Regional Policy Committee , that the Commission should pay attention to this issue of additionality . 
We reiterated the importance of ensuring that Structural Funds do not just merely , as it were , replace public spending otherwise earmarked for those areas that are lagging behind . 
I am rather sorry that the Regional Policy Committee did not incorporate that in the report themselves , but there it is . 
There are a number of questions that I would ask Commissioner Liikanen to take back to Commissioner Barnier . 
What progress is being made in relation to the approval of the programming documents within the Commission ? 
Will the Commissioner take the step in terms of transparency of publishing at an appropriate time the correspondence that has taken place between the Commission and the National Assembly ? 
We were assured , I am bound to say by a rather complacent Economic Secretary , who has now become the First Secretary , that all matters were proceeding in an orderly fashion . 
Yet we hear from remarks that are made from time to time by the Commission that there are real problems and we find it difficult to do our job within this Parliament without that degree of transparency . 
So , will the Commission undertake to make that information available to all Members of the European Parliament ? 
Will they undertake to keep us informed in relation to these matters ? 
Will they undertake to challenge Member State Governments in relation to the maps that have been drawn up in relation to Objective 2 where also there has been quite clear evidence of jerrymandering also . 
The additionality issue is an important one , but I must say it is not the only one which gives much concern to many Members of this European Parliament . 
- I voted against the motion for a resolution because the reference in Article 1 to 're - certified aircraft with low by-pass ratios ' would effectively put an end to a project to re-engine aircraft in an unemployment blackspot of West Wales which could potentially create 400 jobs . 
This is because the engines which the company concerned plans to use have a by-pass ratio of less than three and so would be excluded from EU airspace under the Regulation as it stands . 
Aircraft noise is not determined by engine by-pass ratio alone , and I believe that aircraft noise should be measured by the actual noise made during take-off , fly-past and landing as is the case under the Chicago Convention . 
Mr President , the Committee on Budgetary Control has considered several reports recently , mostly relating to the 1998 discharge procedure . 
It is a strange time for us to be considering how the Commission is faring after its forced resignation last year due to many of the issues highlighted in the 1996 discharge . 
The Commission spent the last year preparing for a radical reform , outlined in the White Paper presented on 1 March , and we appreciate that it will take more than a few months to turn this massive tanker around . 
Mrs Stauner quoted Goethe . 
I will quote Shakespeare . 
It makes no sense in the context of the postponement report , and it is totally nonsensical and hysterical in tone . 
We are delighted that there was an almost unanimous consensus , however , on the new practical approach to the general discharge . 
We would like to thank the rapporteur for her cooperation on that . 
We expect and hope that the Commission will deliver and the rapporteur will perhaps take a more considered approach in her final report . 
But one thing which has become manifestly clear to me during this process is that we need an overhaul of the discharge procedure to avoid this kind of confrontation again . 
This discharge procedure should be an opportunity to study systems failures within the Commission . 
In an ideal world , it should be based on the Court of Auditors ' Report , but that does mean that both the Budgetary Control Committee and the Court of Auditors must develop a much closer relationship . 
There is a massive amount of expertise in the Court of Auditors , expertise that Parliament should draw on in order to reach its own political conclusions . 
The discharge procedure should not be a time to score political points nor to hound individuals but , where systems fail and lead to inefficiency or - worse - to fraud , it is the duty of Parliament to correct them . 
We must also make sure that we find a mechanism within this system to make sure that we take account not only of the reports that are submitted by members of the Budgetary Control Committee , but also those by members of other parliamentary committees . 
In postponing the discharge , we have set out clear points that we expect the Commission to act upon . 
Never again will we accept the situation where we can not get to the bottom of a case , because documents have gone missing . 
Clear lines of responsibility must be established so that if problems occur , disciplinary action will follow . 
Never again will we accept a situation where misconduct or a bad administrator will be judged by his or her peers . 
We expect an external element to be included , as advised by the Committee of Independent Experts . 
These are just two examples of how the Commission can improve its act in the short term without waiting to implement all the recommendations of the White Paper . 
There is a question to answer as to whether the current Commission should or can take responsibility for the mistakes and problems of the past Commission . 
Let us not forget that here we are considering the discharge for 1998 . 
If we took this to its logical conclusion , it would mean that Parliament could only judge a sitting Commission during three years of its tenure . 
That is why it is clear that we must address systems failures rather than attack individuals or individual Commissioners who may no longer be involved . 
We do not want witch-hunts . 
We want answers as to how best we spend European taxpayers ' money . 
I would like to turn very briefly to the other reports that we have considered in committee , and first of all to the Kuhne report on the European Parliament . 
Mr Kuhne has done an excellent job as rapporteur for the Parliament discharge . 
There is no doubt that there have been vast improvements in Parliament 's performance . 
Our financial control system does not have the quantity of payments that the Commission has and therefore things are more manageable . 
We have had everlasting problems , of course , with the buildings , often through no fault of our own but because decisions have been imposed on us by the Council . 
If the Council had any concern about budget control , we certainly would not be sitting in this building right now . 
There has been a great deal of talk about a report on political group expenditure . 
But transparency is a principle that we must hold dear in this context . 
I am delighted that Mrs Rühle has done such a great job on the EDF report . 
Mr Mulder has done a great job as well , displaying his usual wizardry with the EAGGF accounts . 
We support Mr Casaca in his approach , although we did not expect the Commission to support us on that of course . 
We certainly do not expect the Council to support our position on the Casaca Report . 
We are voting for postponement on many accounts . 
The important reports , of course , will come next . 
We hope that we will be able to develop a better approach in the next part of this discharge procedure . 
It is important that we find a new way of doing it . 
Mr President , I would urge colleagues to strengthen this report by insisting on environmental liability . 
Producers of GMOs should be required to take out insurance against any damage to human health or to the environment from the release of their products . 
This means that , if it is not accepted into this directive , the victims will have to pay for any damage instead of the companies that are making the profits . 
Thousands of people across Europe have chosen not to buy products containing GMOs because of the evidence of health and environmental damage . 
We must address those very real issues . 
I would urge colleagues to accept my group 's amendments on liability insurance , GMO contamination and the ban on antibiotic-resistant genes . 
Consumers are demanding the strictest controls and will be satisfied by nothing less . 
It is vital that all the necessary safeguards are now included in this directive . 
Mr President , I am delighted this resolution has been adopted by Parliament in recognition of the problem that exists with additionality . 
I represent Wales which , due to the practices of the UK Government , has not received , and will not receive , what the EU intends to be spent on combating poverty over and above normal government spending , even with Objective I status in the current programme period . 
As Commissioner Barnier has stated , it is as important to comply with the spirit of additionality as with the letter of the law . 
The Commissioner also endorsed the statement by Commissioner Liikanen that in future the Commission would be particularly attentive to the spending figures put forward by the Member States when there is evidence of reduced expenditure in a given region or regions . 
I trust now that the Member States will comply with the wishes of Parliament and the Commission in this matter to ensure that the effective targeting of structural funds at the poorest regions is not undermined . 
Mr President , first of all Mr Dell ' Alba is certainly right with the first part of his question . 
The tone of the question when it was put seems very different from the tone that we are hearing now in the Chamber . 
We all know that there is a timetable - one that we have all agreed to and must be kept . 
What I would like to address , before I look at the substance , is the question behind this question , - that is what we really have to look at here . 
It strikes me - and I will not be quite as subtle as Mr van den Berg - that the tone of this question seems to be the same tone as the Stauner report , the original Stauner report that was comprehensively rejected within the Budget Control Committee - the same tone that was set in the explanatory statement which was rejected by Parliament as a whole . 
We are all desperate to see reform but it will take time . 
The question we really have to ask here is not to the Commission but to the PPE Group as to the motivation behind the question . 
It strikes me as being clearly politically motivated , trying to undermine the work done on reform , trying to shoot this new bird down before it has taken flight . 
This is because there is an element within the PPE Group , and I do not include Mr Pomés Ruiz in this , interested in wrecking the tactics of the Commission , wrecking Commission reform and wrecking the EU . 
And the PPE Group is being hijacked by that element within the group . 
The PSE Group want to engage in a constructive debate because we are interested in the outcome of reform , not in scoring short-term political points that do nothing but damage the European Union . 
Turning very quickly to the substance of the questions : in the Commission hearings the European Parliament asked for rotation of A1 and A2 posts and to end national flags on senior jobs . 
The Commission has taken positive steps since they came into power , ensuring that appointments are made on the basis of merit . 
Of course , in a multinational institution , we must be sensitive to national considerations but these must be seen within the medium and long term . 
As the Commissioner said , you can not take a snapshot halfway through . 
We should be interested in checking systems and not checking individuals . 
I would like to make a quick point on improving the equal opportunities aspect of the Commission ' s reform proposals . 
That is a serious problem . 
The fact is that Commission reform is going ahead . 
That is a post that we would like to have seen advertised . 
Finally , I would like to ask the PPE Group to refrain from such politically motivated and unconstructive questions as we have here . 
I am confident that Mr Pomés Ruiz will not take that attitude when he responds to the White Paper , but please do not let your group be hijacked by a minority . 
First was the issue of definition . 
It is important that the work being undertaken by the Commission should be expanded because , in a situation in which 20 % of irregularity amounts to fraud , the fact of the matter is that by referring to it as fraud and irregularity , European citizens can often be left with an impression that all of the claims are fraudulent ones . 
The second point that I want to make is about the commitment of Member States to deal with fraud . 
My final point concerns the accession countries . 
We must demand that the accession countries also endeavour to work in conjunction with the European Union and to the highest standards . 
Mr President , I also congratulate Mr Bösch on his report . 
He is the acknowledged expert within the European Parliament and , to a large extent , was the architect of the new OLAF . 
But there are two important points to remember , which have been touched upon several times here today - and Mr Cunha has just raised them again . 
The Court of Auditors does not distinguish between fraud and administrative and financial irregularities ; that is , administrative mistakes and people who set out to cheat the EU of money . 
It may be that he measured his land incorrectly . 
And then there are the big fraudsters : the people who , for example , import cigarettes illegally , avoiding tax . 
Let us not forget that 80 % of the fraud takes place within Member States . 
Yesterday the Commission made a commitment to us that they want to cut irregularities by 2 % . 
To take up Mr Dell ` Alba 's point , the Socialists will be voting against a number of paragraphs in this report , not necessarily because we do not agree with them , but because it is not the right context in which to discuss these points which relate to the White Paper . 
Finally , I want to read out a list of shame - Member States which have not yet ratified the Convention on the Protection of the Financial Interests of the EU : Belgium , Luxembourg , the Netherlands , Italy , Spain , Portugal , Greece , Ireland and France . 
Let us see them ratify it . 
Mr President , I wish to begin by thanking my colleague , Mrs Ahern , for raising this very important issue . 
No one in this House could have been anything but appalled at the recent events linked to Sellafield , with the falsification of MOX fuel data and the Nuclear Installation Inspectorate 's report on the low level of safety procedures at the plant . 
Following the initial defensive response by BNFL , it was only when that report was published that the real scale of the problem emerged , that the falsification of figures had apparently been going on secretly since 1996 . 
Wales , like Ireland , has suffered from the radioactive contamination in the Irish Sea , due essentially to Sellafield . 
There has been a theory about a link between a high incidence of childhood leukaemia , for example , and proximity to the Welsh coastline . 
It was cheaper for them to store waste , and evidence published recently by the nuclear-free local authorities confirms this view . 
So , with the problems of the environmental pollution and the effects on health , as well as the issue of cost and the debate about the cost , what justification is left for nuclear processing ? 
It is not worth the risks associated with it and , as the resolution states , the Council , the Commission and Parliament must reconsider this whole issue , including the production of MOX fuel , in the light of recent events and in the interests not only of people in Ireland and Wales but also in the whole of Europe . 
British Nuclear Fuels has an obligation to deal with the levels of waste that Mrs Ahern mentioned earlier in the safest way possible . 
That issue too is one of great concern to me because an area of Wales has been mentioned as a possible site for storing low-level radioactive waste . 
A strategic approach is needed . 
The nuclear industry has caused enormous damage already and we have to be certain that more and more communities and people 's lives are not blighted by its legacy in future . 
Mr President , I want to associate myself this morning with those people who have spoken in this debate and expressed some desire to challenge an atmosphere of complacency about the current state of the European economy . 
I share the view expressed earlier by Mrs McNally that you can look to the United States and see that there has been investment in research . 
I refer to the remarks made earlier by Mr Lipietz for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs . 
I am very pleased to engage in a debate with him over the next four years on this issue of market liberalisation . 
The fact is that we have not yet seen the agreed market liberalisation within Europe applied in some Member States , not least his own . 
I have a shared concern about the jobs of workers . 
I would be very pleased to bring Mr Lipietz to speak to workers in the United Kingdom who may lose their jobs as a result of decisions made by a French owner of energy companies in the UK , when British companies are not allowed to gain access to the French market because the French have not applied agreed European policy . 
That is a structural reform we must drive through . 
It is not just in that area . 
We see that the wealthiest states within the European Union continue to be the states that apply the strongest amount of state aid . 
That is robbing the jobs of some of the poorer states who are represented here . 
That is also one of the reasons why I do not share the view expressed by Mr von Wogau in relation to competition policy . 
My concern , where decentralisation is concerned , is that there should not be a repatriation of competition policy . 
It was the PPE and it was you , Mr Elles , who insisted on that . 
We are responding to that request . 
You insisted on it , we are responding . 
Mr President , I am going to confine my comments to the general Commission discharge for 1998 , which has taken on a highly political and divisive tone right from the start of our discussions . 
I feel that we have been through several rounds of a boxing match but ultimately the whole committee , including the rapporteur , said that discharge should be granted . 
Rather than stick with the hysterical , drum-beating report that the rapporteur produced , which , if truth be told , had little originality , no sense of direction and no suggestion on how to move ahead constructively , the committee decided back in March to postpone the discharge and to set out seventeen clear conditions which we expected the Commission to sign up to in the space of a couple of months . 
We were delighted that the rapporteur saw the error of her ways and supported our way of thinking . 
Round one to us , the anti-PPE alliance . 
Round two to the anti-PPE alliance . 
The Commission responded constructively to most of the points we set out in March . 
We thought the fight was over , but no , we were in for more with the new explanatory statement . 
We have yet to see the result of that round but we are confident about the final knock-out round and we confidently predict what will happen on Thursday . 
The only real question that remains is why her name is still on the report . 
The truth is , we know that the Commission has a long way to go in getting its act together . 
The Court of Auditors was right in not giving its O.K. to the Commission expenditure in 1998 , but we are willing now to give the Commission the benefit of the doubt . 
We think that this is a genuine attempt at reform and the Commission needs a certain amount of time to implement the necessary changes . 
We will keep an eye on the situation and make sure the Commission sticks to the promises it has made . 
For example , the promise to cut the number of errors is a major promise but it will not happen unless we have the commitment and the resources to go with it . 
Can you give us these figures , please ? 
You know , Commissioner , that one area where we were dissatisfied with your answers was in response to lessons learned from Fléchard . 
We know from the Court of Auditors , unlike Mrs Stauner , that we can not get the money back . 
Will you make a commitment though to cooperate fully with our internal inquiry committee and give us the information we request ? 
Finally , I hope that in our committee , we will be able to stop fighting each other and get on with fighting fraud . 
She has indeed worked quite hard although , in the case of the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy , I am afraid she was working so hard that she was not able to pay anything more than a goodwill visit to our committee . 
Therefore we have prepared the opinion which is before Parliament . 
I will briefly touch on some of the points that arise from it . 
Firstly , I want to support the points that are made by Mrs Haug concerning the implications of spending in the Balkans . 
It is a matter that has been of significant concern to the Industry Committee . 
We are particularly concerned about the implications for a wide range of the programmes that fall within our remit . 
It certainly is the case that , with the move to activity-based budgeting , we are moving away from the concept that everything that was previously in the budget has to be preserved for the future . 
Nonetheless a great deal of the programmes that are within our remit would be significantly affected by the spending proposals for the Balkans , unless Mrs Haug is successful . 
So on behalf of the Industry Committee I should like to voice our support for her in that regard . 
In two particular areas we are affected by multiannual programmes . 
I want to reiterate our commitment in the research area . 
I recognise that this is not a matter that is affected by the budget on this occasion , but we should not ignore the changes we are seeing in the energy sphere with Save and Altener . 
The figures that we see are seeing for Save , where there is a significant reduction in the budget for energy efficiency schemes , are a result of the budgetary process last year . 
That is only just now coming through . 
The final point I want to make in the trade sphere relates to the need for us to ensure that the omnibus regulation for the transatlantic dialogue is adapted . 
I hope the Commissioner will take that on board . 
Mr President , the question troubling me over Mr Karas ' report is whether we are actually asked to endorse an information campaign on the practical implications of the introduction of the euro , or a propaganda campaign in favour of it . 
Surely no-one could challenge the need for information . 
True , some British newspapers declare that we already know all the facts , but the recent announcement of the merger between the Frankfurt and London stock exchanges left many British newspaper editors spectacularly exposed on the simple issue of which currency would be used for the exchange denomination . 
More than two-thirds of UK businesses are unaware of the practical implications of the introduction of the euro , even for those countries outside the euro zone . 
If there is funding available for the many seminars and conferences which UK trade associations , lawyers and accountants are holding , then as a UK lawyer let me declare my interest in ensuring that we get our share of it . 
But there is reason to believe that this campaign goes well beyond the provision of practical information . 
Perhaps we see the answer in the evangelical tone of Mr Karas ' report and his remarkable declaration that the euro information campaign must help to perpetuate the successful history of the euro . 
I certainly wish the euro well . 
Currency instability is bad for all of us , whether we are in or out of the euro zone . 
But I personally fail to recognise this historic success over the last six months , and the astonishing suggestion that the euro has proved a stabilising factor in the face of international monetary crises . 
Whether in or out of the euro zone it should be : information , ` yes ' , but propaganda , ` no ' . 
I would like to urge you , Madam President and the Bureau members - I understand this is coming on your agenda very soon - to think very carefully before taking this decision because constituency weeks are a very good idea . 
There is a desperate need for MEPs to communicate with the electorate in a much more effective way . 
The fact that we had such a poor turnout in the European elections proves that this is the case and , if we allow people to sign in during constituency weeks , we are undermining the whole point of them . 
We are giving fuel to the Eurosceptics who think that we are pumping up our own expenses and we look like hypocrites at a time when we are asking the Commission to reform . 
Madam President , I urge you and the Bureau members to consider this issue very carefully and turn down the request by the Quaestors . 
Mr President , perhaps I can begin by saying the introduction of the title of our debate no doubt had many Daily Mail journalists salivating , but the issues that we are considering are fundamental issues that go to the heart of what the European Union is all about . 
That is the development of a true , single market ; because if we were able to achieve a true , single market , not only might we find more unanimity within this Chamber , but we should be well on the way to serving our constituents by ensuring that we achieve real economic progress in Europe . 
Therefore , this particular piece of legislation falls within that context . 
There are a number of ways in which competition policy is important in driving this agenda forward . 
The Commissioner , and I congratulate him for it , has seized the initiative in terms of the application of state-aid policy ; we will be debating that in the second session in Strasbourg in connection with another report which I am currently taking before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs . 
The other major area that Commissioner Monti has been busy with is the modernisation of competition policy itself . 
We are awaiting the outcome of the Commissioner ' s review of over 100 responses to his White Paper on the reform of restrictive trade practices and the abuse of market power . 
Earlier today I heard that we may receive the result before the end of this month ; perhaps we will hear more from the Commissioner about that in due course . 
The reform that we are looking at , according to the Commission itself , forms part of the overall agenda of reform . 
I have no doubt that the Commissioner ' s proposals will achieve that simplification . 
Business is looking for the development of confidence in the whole range of new mechanisms which the Commissioner is seeking to bring forward as part of its overall reform package . 
I would therefore ask the Commission how he sees this specific reform , which is not controversial , in the context of his wider reform of competition policy which , as he well knows , might be generously said to be slightly more controversial . 
May I turn to some of the detailed areas in the particular proposals that the Commission has asked Parliament to comment upon . 
In essence there are a number of areas where , having agreed with the thrust of the reform being taken forward , I feel that the Commission might give the matter further thought . 
Firstly , I would like the Commissioner to explain why there is a contrast between the treatment of horizontal restraints and vertical restraints . 
I would like the Commissioner to indicate whether , in due course , it is his intention to see further exemption categories specified in the legislation . 
I have indicated that businesses are strongly of the view that the duration of exemption in the cases of research and development should be expanded up to a period of ten years . 
Since the Commission ' s own papers make it clear that horizontal cooperation agreements are generally not made in order to work against the interests of consumers , I would be grateful to see what the Commissioner ' s response is in that particular area . 
I would also be grateful to have clarification of the position regarding trade supplies , not least because that is an issue that troubles Mr Berenguer Fuster . 
I know he has tabled amendments in relation to that . 
I am particularly concerned to ensure that we take all steps to avoid a re-nationalisation of EU competition law and I would be grateful to hear what reassurances we can have from the Commissioner in that area . 
Finally , business would prefer a lengthier transition period ; they would also prefer the Commission to look at more than just the market share in assessing market power . 
For these purposes what the Commission proposes may be appropriate , but deciding market power solely by assessing market share is too inexact a science . 
Mr President , I wish to thank Mrs van der Laan for giving the Committee on Budgetary Control and the European Parliament a model on which to base future discharge reports . 
Now we have a follow-up to check that those points have been implemented . 
We shall be following her lead in not supporting the amendments tabled because we want to keep to that clear-cut approach . 
On the whole , the Commission has responded positively , and this now has to be set within the context of the more general Commission reform . 
We are pleased that the Commission will present annual activity reports for each Directorate-General but , for that to work effectively , we need to know the targets for these DGs very soon . 
Work on staff policy has also gone ahead but things seem to be moving very slowly . 
We appreciate the sensitivity of negotiations on staff issues but we and the European public will soon lose patience if the talking does not stop soon and the action start . 
The CAP and Structural Funds are the areas where most mismanagement problems lie in the EU , partly due to the scale of the finance received by these areas . 
That is why it is critical that we , as the controlling and accountable body , have access to information on the financial management of these two areas . 
We look forward to receiving regular reports from the Personal Representatives Group . 
External aid , however , is an area where we still see substantial problems . 
The rapporteur has referred clearly to the disastrous way the aid to Palestine was handled , which gives a very poor signal at a time when the utmost political delicacy and sensitivity were needed in that region . 
Another Court of Auditors ' report on external aid has come out very recently and we shall be looking at that in the future . 
Once again , I thank the rapporteur and congratulate her on a job well done . 
Mr President , I would like to start by giving my thanks to the Court of Auditors for its very useful report this time on a range of issues . 
We were very critical of it at the time of the annual report but I think these special reports are very valuable . 
There are clearly a range of areas where the Commission has yet to act to improve matters . 
Today , I am going to concentrate on a response to the report written by Mr Dell ` Alba on various aspects of the Structural Funds . 
Certainly , in my country , this is one of the areas where the European Union can visibly claim to be making a difference , and there is a recognition that Structural Funds and the attempt to increase wealth , and improve social conditions and employment rates in an area give a positive image of the EU . 
But we can not stand by and uncritically applaud . 
In the case of additionality , we must remember that European Funds are intended not to finance but to cofinance operations and must not take the place of public expenditure by national authorities . 
That is all very well , but even the new regulations only allow for assessment of additionality at a national level and not at a regional level . 
In Wales , for example , we know that this is a clear target ; we need clear targets and objectives and we will be looking forward to seeing those within the Structural Fund programmes in future . 
Mr President , I wish to congratulate Mrs Karamanou on a very good and comprehensive report . 
The problems have been recognised for a long time , but progress on solving them has been slow . 
We repeat ourselves constantly in these reports , calling for better statistics and training , awareness campaigns to encourage more women into politics in the same way as they have already very often become key players in their own communities and local groups , and for measures to make it easier for men and to women to balance work and family life . 
We have to keep on saying these things because they are needed . 
But , in addition , we need positive action , such as quotas , to make a real difference . 
This report does not dictate what should be done in individual Member States , but calls upon the governments to look at their own situation and take action to improve the balance of women and men , using legislative means , if necessary , as some have already done . 
Where these measures have been used , they have been successful , not only in getting more women elected to Parliament but also in raising awareness , providing good role models for other women - girls in particular - and improving debate and decision-making all around . 
So the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will support all the conclusions of the report because it will contribute towards achieving equality and real democracy . 
Mr President , unfortunately it is very timely that we should be discussing these issues today in the light of current examples of restructuring . 
As has been mentioned earlier , the Anglo-Dutch company Corus - the steel company - is a classic example of a company making decisions based on profit with no regard to the disastrous social costs of its actions . 
Corus has just announced total job losses of 6 000 in the UK - nearly 3 000 in my own constituency in Wales . 
Despite months of speculation over possible plant closures the company was unwilling to reveal its future plans to the government , let alone to its own workforce , until the formal announcement was made on 1 February . 
There was no prior consultation with the workforce , although since announcing the decision the company has been holding what it calls `` consultation '' . 
There is speculation that Danone , a profitable company , is to shed 3 000 jobs in Europe . 
Again there has been no consultation with the workers and no discussion about alternative ways forward . 
That is why it is so important to adopt the directive on the information and consultation of workers without delay , together with a review of the European Works Council Directive and the Collective Redundancies Directive , which incidentally proved to offer so little protection to the Corus workers in my constituency . 
Companies can not be free to wreak such havoc on people 's lives and communities . 
There is a positive framework of controls and sanctions which we can use . 
We must make sure they are effective . 
Mr President , since 1998 eight states in Nigeria have enforced a form of Islamic law which allows corporal punishment , despite the fact that it contravenes both the Nigerian Constitution and international covenants on human rights to which Nigeria has signed up . 
This case highlights the increasing anxiety about human rights abuses in Nigeria . 
People of different religious beliefs have coexisted peacefully in Nigeria in the past , yet George Carey , the Archbishop of Canterbury , on his recent visit to the country , underlined the growing international concern about developments there . 
In the state of Kaduna it is estimated that 2000 people have been killed in fighting between Christians and Muslims over plans to introduce the new Islamic code of law . 
Yet human rights groups of both faiths are now campaigning on these issues . 
The resolution we have before us sends out two clear messages . 
The first is that we in the European Parliament are not prepared to ignore human rights abuses anywhere and so we condemn without reservation the treatment of Bariya Ibrahim Magazu and call upon the Nigerian Government to prevent any repeat of such abuse in future . 
But the second is that we are also making a commitment , as a parliament , to support the creation of a democratic and just society in Nigeria by strengthening the dialogue between ourselves and that country . 
Mr President , I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very good report . 
The issue of animal testing has been of concern to this Parliament for a long time and is also reflected in the level of lobbying by constituents who want to keep the ban on marketing cosmetics . 
It is time for us to ensure that action is taken ; that the concerns of our citizens and those who care about animal welfare are properly addressed by a complete ban on sales of cosmetics tested on animals and a testing ban . 
As other Members have said , there have been enough postponements : from 1998 to 2000 , and then to 2002 . 
We have to set a date and keep to it . 
There can be no justification for making animals suffer in tests when there are proven , effective and safe alternative testing methods and 8 000 cosmetic ingredients already in use . 
And we are talking about cosmetics , not medical products ; we are talking about shampoos and anti-wrinkle creams , and as Mr Davies said earlier , there is certainly no shortage of those in the shops already . 
Consumers must have the right to choose whether the products they buy have been animal-tested and to be warned if those products contain allergens , so the issue of labelling is essential . 
We would have liked , as a group , to have seen the report further strengthened by the adoption of a ban on the use of allergenic fragrances , particularly in baby products . 
So I would urge Members to support the report , which is in line with the demands of the majority of the people we represent throughout Europe . 
It would not endanger consumer safety and it would certainly force the cosmetics industry to speed up development of the alternatives which we know are available and which can be developed by alternative testing methods in future . 
Mr President , we will probably never know the real ecological , biological , psychological and economic magnitude of the Chernobyl disaster . 
As well as the deaths and the terrible illnesses in the region , 15 years on there is still a frightening legacy of radioactive contamination . 
An area about the size of Britain is permanently contaminated and uninhabitable . 
Much less tragic , but serious even so , in my constituency in Wales , following contamination from Chernobyl , 359 farms are still under restrictions today and thousands of sheep are restricted from movement to ensure that no animal contaminated with radioactivity enters the food chain . 
There has been continuous monitoring for 15 years and the restrictions will last for another 10-15 years . 
We must have sustainable energy policies . 
In over 40 years of operation the nuclear industry has not even solved the problem of radioactive waste and , above all , it poses massive threats to human health and the environment . 
Nothing illustrates that better than Chernobyl and we have to learn from it . 
We may never know the full impact of the disaster but we must make every effort , as outlined in this resolution , to find out all we can and provide effective assistance to help the worst-affected areas . 
Mr President , the purpose of this regulation is to ensure consistency by 2002 in the rules governing the non-commercial movement of pet animals , which has been commonly labelled the pet-passport scheme . 
The fact that this proposal has been brought forward by the Commission represents a remarkable achievement in action taken to control rabies . 
The Commission measures are based largely on the British scheme and they allow for the easier movement of cats and dogs within the EU and certain third countries on condition that they can be identified by electronic chip or tattoo , that they have been vaccinated and that their immunity has been checked more than six months prior to travel . 
The proposal also allows the free movement of insects , fish and some other animals . 
It is very important that there is scope within this proposal for certain Member States to vary the provisions when special circumstances make that necessary . 
The Commission proposed both Article 37 and 152 ( 4 ) ( b ) as a double legal base . 
However , as the regulation refers only to pet animals and to the adoption of veterinary measures to protect health , the Environment Committee agreed that the regulation should be based only on Article 152 ( 4 ) ( b ) which relates to public health and which covers rabies . 
The Committee on Legal Affairs agreed with this view as again the proposal concerns only the movement of pet animals and its aim is the protection of public health . 
I hope that we can reach agreement on the legal base . 
The key points of debate in committee were first the use of tattoos and electronic identification systems . 
Tattoos can cause problems , they can become difficult to read or they can be altered . 
In contrast , the use of electronic chips are more effective both in terms of identification , but they are also a much more humane method because the animal does not need a pain reliever or a tranquilliser . 
Similarly , it is proposed that during this transition period the countries which do not accept tattoos as a valid form of identification at the moment can still require electronic microchips only . 
Amendment No 8 refers to the need to state clearly in this proposal that puppies and kittens can not moved until they have reached the age for vaccination and other requirements because there is misconception about this . 
If this scheme is to be successful , it is crucial that it is operated effectively . 
The use of specified ISO transponders would help achieve this . 
Similarly , the capacity to record the name and address of the animal owner would assist in combating trafficking in pet animals , and clarification of the anti-rabies vaccine is included in the report as well as the OIE International Animal Health Code again for the purposes of effectiveness of the proposal . 
This of course removes the need for quarantine , but it also provides the extra safeguards that those countries require . 
A controversial issue has been that of ferrets and whether or not they should be included in this regulation . 
The Commission proposal includes ferrets in the category of pets which would not require any specific animal health requirements . 
There have been very different views on this , but the view of the Environment Committee is that this would pose an unacceptable risk and ferrets should therefore be removed from Annex I , Part b. 
Finally , it is very important that detailed information is available for consumers and for staff at EU borders to ensure they are familiar with the requirements . 
My aim in drafting the report has been to retain the positive and essential elements of the Commission 's proposal whilst at the same time taking account of the requirements of certain Member States . 
Mr President , the importance of lifelong learning in creating a learning society is fundamental to meet the challenges of economic and social change and sustainable development that we face today . 
In the light of recent job losses across Europe , retraining and education will be even more important in helping to adapt the skills of workers to enable them to find new jobs . 
For this to be effective sufficient resources have to be made available . 
Lifelong learning has a much wider significance than that : it is also important for personal fulfilment and as a means of developing responsible citizenship , encouraging people to play a full part in their community . 
So it can help break the cycle of poverty and unemployment . 
Through informal and non-credited learning it can also be a very effective way of involving both adults and young people in the most disadvantaged areas , who are those most threatened by social exclusion and poverty but who often have very negative attitudes towards formal education and so are least likely to benefit from it . 
Unfortunately , the Commission 's White Paper `` Teaching and Learning - Towards the learning society '' missed the opportunity to produce a comprehensive report , including examples of good practice , which would have been of great value to all those working in the field . 
It does not contain enough information on how effective or cost-effective various actions were and there is little information on what was done to target specific groups such as women , elderly workers , immigrants , families in disadvantaged areas , the long-term unemployed and disabled people . 
So whilst there are universities , colleges and community groups as well as regional and local governments across the EU carrying out excellent and pioneering work in this field , this report does not really reflect that . 
Therefore I agree with the rapporteur that even as an interim report , on what was after all an ambitious White Paper , this is a disappointing summary of progress on this most important issue . 
I hope future reports will be more positive and can be useful tools in themselves for those working in education . 
Madam President , as many other colleagues have said , one of the most worrying aspects of the violence at Göteborg is that it detracted from the action of many people who were there to demonstrate peacefully so as to make their legitimate concerns known to government leaders . 
The violence overshadowed the real message that came from the genuine demonstrators outside the summit , which was that people want to be more involved in this process of building the Europe of the future . 
They want to take part in a real public debate . 
The post-Nice process and the Convention are crucial in ensuring that genuine democratic reform can be achieved and that European citizens can play a part in that . 
We welcome the commitment that was made in Göteborg to move ahead with accession negotiations so that the newest Member States can take part in the 2004 elections . 
We also welcome the establishment of a European sustainable development strategy , albeit a much watered-down version of that originally presented by the Commission , which had contained ambitious targets and concrete measures . 
Sustainable development is about people : their economic and social needs as well as environmental conservation . 
Putting this into practice has huge implications . 
Mr Persson referred to the importance of establishing the processes . 
The Cardiff European Summit in 1998 adopted what is referred to as the `` Cardiff process '' , integrating environmental considerations into all areas of EU policy as the first step towards sustainable development . 
Göteborg did not provide the next major step in practical terms , after the Cardiff process , but the important link is there and the strategy can be built upon . 
Another welcome decision at Göteborg was the plan to ratify the Kyoto Protocol , even without the USA , before the Rio +10 conference . 
This will send a very clear message , not only to the United States , but also to the rest of the world , about our commitment to this goal and our determination to combat climate change . 
I believe that the issue of subsidiarity and its meaning in practice is central to the whole debate on the future of Europe - not only in terms of the rights of nations and regions within the Member States , but also in terms of citizenship . 
I represent Wales which has a new national assembly , just two years old . 
It is a developing body that wants to play a full part in and have strong links with the European Union and help build the Europe of the future . 
Would the Minister agree that involving this kind of regional level of government is crucial in terms of developing citizenship and bringing Europe closer to the people - a problem that we are all familiar with in all our constituencies . 
If this is something that needs to be done on a European level in order to bring Europe closer to people , how will this be reflected in the work of the Council ? 
Mr President , I am pleased to support this report . 
I have spoken several times in this House about the recent loss of 3000 jobs in Wales when the steel company Corus announced massive redundancies . 
Yet it failed to tell the workers that they were about to get rid of 6000 jobs even when there was massive public speculation about these job losses . 
It must be more than paying lip service to consultation . 
I agree with Mr Menrad that we need a revision of the directive to prevent repeats of the Corus experience and to look at other issues he identifies such as the involvement of women . 
I hope that this debate will help achieve that . 
Mr President , of all the issues debated this week there is none that can have a greater impact on the economic wealth of Europe than the reform of competition policy . 
Fair and open competition is the bedrock on which the single European market is built and on which the growth of European economies depends . 
That is why we must maintain our determination to root out monopolists and those who engage in shady anti-competitive price fixing or market sharing deals . 
These actions not only undermine the interests of commercial competitors , they rip off consumers and undermine the dynamic competitive economy on which our future economic interests rely . 
But we must also recognise that Commissioner Monti ' s weapons for tackling such abuses are sadly out of date . 
The Commission ' s White Paper on competition policy reform highlighted the difficulties . 
The 40 year old procedure under Regulation 17 had become a bureaucratic paper-pushing exercise . 
The Commission wants radical change , devolving the application of EU competition law to national authorities in order to refocus its efforts in rooting out cartels and the abuse of market power . 
We also pointed to the possible danger of the reform leading to inconsistent application or even the renationalisation of competition policy , thereby destroying the single market . 
These were real concerns voiced by many Members of the House as well as significant sectors of the business community throughout Europe . 
Above all I want to draw attention to Article 3 of the regulation , which unambiguously states that in cases affecting trade between Member States it is European competition law that takes precedence . 
This is a core requirement of the single market and strongly supported by all sides in our committee debates . 
For us , the preservation of Article 3 is an essential part of this reform . 
We have proposed a number of amendments in order to improve the operation of this radical reform . 
We have proposed a range of amendments to improve legal certainty for business , including the widening of Article 10 - changes which have received widespread business support . 
We have also proposed changes in the transitional arrangements and in undertaking a timely review . 
We have also wrestled with the issue of the appropriate treatment of communications from in-house legal advisers . 
I am deeply indebted to my colleague , Mr Rovsing , for the attention that he has given to this issue . 
There are different rules in operation in different parts of the European Union . 
We have tried to ensure that the professional status of in-house lawyers is acknowledged , whilst not impeding the Commission in the thorough investigation of possible infringements . 
In the committee vote I indicated that this situation could possibly be resolved by a Commission declaration clarifying the treatment of such evidence in the application of Commission penalties . 
Mr Rovsing and I now understand that Commissioner Monti may have it in mind to make some such declaration , in which event our group will no longer consider it appropriate to retain Amendment No 10 . 
This debate has also highlighted other important but wider issues of competition policy reform . 
We welcome the dynamism which Commissioner Monti has brought to his brief . 
Our committee thanks Commissioner Monti for his commitment to real and meaningful dialogue . 
But we reiterate our objective of Parliament moving towards full codecision in respect of these matters . 
The interest of my parliamentary colleagues in competition policy issues is not just some academic exercise for commercial lawyers . 
In an increasingly global world we recognise that effective competition is the essential motor for the growth of European economies and the welfare of the people we have been sent here to represent depends on fair and open competition in order to drive that growth forward . 
Mr President , I would like to welcome both the directives and congratulate both rapporteurs as other Members have done . 
Again , as other Members have said , we can reassure people that because of the various derogations and allowances for lower standards , which were built into the final compromise text , current power stations such as Aberthaw in my own constituency are under no threat . 
Aberthaw coal-fired power station has been the subject of considerable press and media attention due to perceived threats to its viability and its profitability from this directive . 
My group also supports the compromise which tightens the limit values for sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide and introduces generally stronger standards . 
Mr President , I am honoured to have been asked by my colleague , Mr Agag Longo , to present his excellent and detailed report to Parliament on the Commission 's XXXth report on competition policy . 
We congratulate the Commissioner on the success of European competition policy , but we recognise that such success can only be maintained by constant and rigorous monitoring . 
Our rapporteur has highlighted further measures to which Parliament will be giving its attention in the coming months . 
The future of car distribution is one area where we eagerly await the Commission 's proposals . 
I believe that our initial evaluations suggest that consumers are missing out under the current exemption , with unjustifiable price variations between Member States . 
We also await the consultation on Merger Regulation No 4064/89 . 
We welcome Commissioner Monti 's positive approach to consultation with our committee , but we repeat our call for major constitutional change which gives Parliament real codecision power with the Commission . 
Commissioner Monti has played the central role in fostering a global approach to competition policy and enforcement issues . 
Our committee supports efforts to build an international competition system in the framework of the WTO , whilst recognising that Europe 's credibility in this area will depend on efficient and effective cooperation between the EU 's own national competition authorities . 
We are also looking to the outcome of negotiations between the Commission and the Council on the Commission 's proposals for reform of the enforcement regime under Articles 81 and 82 which we approved last month . 
Mr Agag Longo draws attention in his report to other important elements of Parliament 's position on the reform , our strong support for Article 3 and our real concern over issues of legal certainty , as well as separation of powers . 
I know that Commissioner Monti is aware of this , but we have consistently argued that the Commission must guard against the danger that the reform may lead to inconsistent application or even to a renationalisation of competition policy , thereby destroying the single market . 
In continuing to raise these issues we reflect the concerns of many in the business community in Europe . 
The Commissioner is aware of the complaints which have been made about some acquisitions by companies which do not appear to operate in a liberalised home market and we look to the Commission to investigate whether state-aid rules have been breached in such cases . 
Mr Agag Longo also urges further progress on liberalisation in areas such as energy , transport and the postal services . 
Our committee will shortly respond in fuller detail to the Commission 's ninth state aid survey , but this report also touches on this area . 
We applaud progress on implementation of a public register of state aid and a scoreboard as important tools for promoting transparency and democratic control , even if I embarrass Commissioner Monti by saying that his practical demonstration of the scoreboard to our committee was frustrated by technical problems . 
Finally , on an entirely personal note , I would like to express my concern that the Commission has made particularly slow progress over complaints concerning the Spanish government 's treatment of Gibraltar citizens in relation to telecoms matters . 
I am bound to say that this hardly seems to me to be an even-handed approach and I hope Commissioner Monti will agree to look into this . 
Otherwise I commend Mr Agag Longo 's excellent report to the House . 
The report before us makes for a significant improvement on current legislation governing the safety of products . 
Of the points agreed , I particularly welcome the fact that stronger action can now be taken at Community level under the rapid alert system where there is a serious risk to consumers , so that dangerous products can be taken off the market . 
It is important that we have adequate and independent certification to comply with the relevant product safety criteria and clear labelling for consumers . 
The fact that the Commission will be reporting regularly to Parliament is significant , as is the reference to the precautionary principle and the duty of the relevant authorities in Member States to interpret this in relation to all products . 
I am also glad that agreement has been reached on antique and charity shops and car boot sales , as by their nature they can not provide information about second-hand goods but do provide a very valuable service . 
Overall , we need a good balance between ensuring that products put on the market are safe and seeing to it that the measures proposed to that end can be implemented in practice . 
This report partially achieves that and the consumer organisations which have welcomed earlier drafts of this directive will welcome this one , too . 
Our top priority is to ensure that consumers are protected and that they have the right to know which products are dangerous and what is being done about them . 
This report makes significant improvements to existing legislation and hopefully will have the support of Parliament . 
May I congratulate the rapporteur on this important report - a crucial element of which is the definition of participation , ensuring that people can influence plans and programmes at different stages of the process and receive proper feedback so that they know that the issues they have raised have been dealt with seriously . 
It is essential that consultation is not restricted in a way that in practice would make it meaningless - in other words , that authorities themselves could define the people who would be affected and they would be the only ones consulted . 
This legislation could prevent that kind of situation arising . 
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work on this report . 
I am one of the Members who has spoken in this House previously regretting the fact that we did not have the kind of legislation that we are discussing today . 
I only have to mention what happened with Corus in Wales earlier this year for you to see why I attach such importance to this particular piece of legislation . 
Employees would have to be given all the relevant facts . 
While certain measures are needed to protect a company 's commercial interests , my group believes that these are adequately covered . 
We often hear about good examples of voluntary agreements . 
I applaud those companies that follow good practice , but many do not . 
We have seen that time and time again especially in Wales and Britain where we have had no legislation on information and consultation to date . 
I am very pleased that there has at last been progress on this crucial matter . 
It is also about dignity in the workplace . 
Employees are an integral part of the partnership with management and must be kept informed on decisions which affect not only their lives , but those of their families and whole communities . 
Mr President , I wanted to ask you about the decision of the Bureau that was taken last night on the issue of a Staff Regulation . 
I want to know on what basis that decision was taken . 
I think that the House should be reminded that when the present Commission was accepted , it was accepted on the basis of the need for radical reform . 
A decision was taken by the Bureau last night to adopt a rather more cautious approach than the one that has been adopted in plenary , but we did not want as in the past , we wanted a radical overhaul . 
Could you , Mr President , give me an assurance that the Bureau will look at this again and also invite the Vice-President of the Commission to speak to the Bureau in order to amend the letter that was agreed last night ? 
Mr President , there is unanimity in the House about the importance of this reform , about how simplification is a good thing and how vitally important the sheep industry is . 
I am deeply disappointed that the socialists , the liberals and the nationalists are telling the House that they all intend to vote to cut the recommendation of the Committee on Agriculture by EUR 5 at least in relation to each animal . 
We must ensure greater financial support for sheep farmers who have no economic alternative . 
Today there are sheep farmers in my constituency who are raising questions about whether they should even restock after foot-and-mouth . 
I say to Mr Adam this his government is not helping them by indicating that the compensation scheme that was previously in place is one that they do not intend to continue with , whilst , at the same time , not saying what they intend to put in its place . 
I should like , first of all , to thank the two Members for all their work in writing these reports . 
They have been tireless workers on fighting fraud in the European Union since they were appointed . 
However , there is a problem . 
According to the Commission report , there has been a doubling of fraud , in particular , of the revenue collected over the year 2000 . 
That is of great concern but we must put it into context and remember that much of this is due to Member States not taking fraud seriously . 
They are not collecting the money that is due to the European Union , for example , from cigarette smuggling and the money that we could get through taxes . 
Member States are also not taking fraud seriously because we still have four Member States who have not ratified the Convention on the Protection of Financial Interests which means that nobody can move on in terms of fighting fraud . 
What do we do when we find fraud ? 
We pass a file onto OLAF who do the investigation and then it sits on a shelf because nobody prosecutes . 
Only two people have ever been prosecuted by OLAF and this is a green light to fraudsters in the EU . 
We must ask if people are against the European Public Prosecutor , then what alternative do they want to see ? 
We may be asking for too much too fast and I am concerned about that , but I respect the Members for really trying to push the boat out on this fraud issue . 
Mr President , Commissioner , I would like to support Mr Fiori 's report , which I think has struck the right balance . 
My views have changed in the course of the past year as a result of the evidence we have heard on the temporary committee . 
I have two basic concerns : firstly , much of the evidence suggests that developments on embryonic stem cell research may not deliver the results we all want in terms of progress on some of the most serious illnesses that afflict many members of our society and many of our own families ; secondly , in the course of this research , we will allow people , and in particular , women suffering from infertility to be exploited . 
I am not against embryo research - as an infertility sufferer myself , I have benefited from it and I have donated surplus embryos for research purposes - but we need to be sure that to achieve the aims that we all want , we do not focus in one direction only , while neglecting other areas of research which hold equal if not more promise of success . 
Mr President , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group I welcome the report and I congratulate the rapporteur . 
I agree with the criticisms made of the Commission 's report and many of the points made in relation to support that SMEs need , both by the rapporteur and by other speakers here tonight . 
But the report does not deal adequately with the crucial issue of whether jobs were actually created by these financial instruments . 
The amendment by my group makes explicit reference to this . 
The stated intention of the SME guarantee facility is to stimulate job creation by supporting the investment activities of SMEs within the EU through increased availability of loan finance . 
The estimate for job creation is an average 1.3 new jobs per SME over 2 years which is described as substantial . 
But we do not have a cost/benefit analysis and enough concrete information . 
I would ask colleagues to support this report but also to support the amendment which makes this point clear . 
Mr President , I just wanted to ask a few questions . 
I am sorry I was not here at the beginning . 
First of all , do you not think that Mr Heaton-Harris is giving a green light to fraudsters ? 
In the past five years only two people have been prosecuted for fraud against the EU . 
If he does not come up with any alternatives , it is effectively giving the green light . 
I wonder if you could comment on that . 
Secondly , how do you convince those Member States which are resistant to the concept of European Public Prosecutor , for example my own country which , in my opinion , is misguided on this point ? 
Thirdly , how will the European Public Prosecutor be appointed ? 
And , fourthly , do you not agree that it is important not to proceed too quickly and do you accept also that this proposal is not enough ? 
In other words , Eurojust will simply not work . 
Mr President , I am pleased to see that you have changed the title of this debate : it is about regional and lesser-used languages . 
The fact that we have not discussed this reflects the problems that are faced by lesser-used language communities in terms of their relationship with the EU . 
We are asking for a programme to follow up the European Year of Languages where we would also hope to see earmarking for lesser-used languages . 
We also want to see culture on a majority voting basis within the Council so that the Commission can present a programme specifically on lesser-used languages which I know the Commission has already . 
But I hope this will be a first step and we will see an own-initiative report on this in future . 
I wish you : Nadolig Llawen a Blwyddyn Newydd Dda - a Happy Christmas and a Happy New Year . 
The title is not correct . 
It should be a resolution on regional and lesser-used languages and I hope that this will be corrected . 
The wording in the joint resolution , which was agreed by everybody who was party to the joint resolution , is regional and lesser-used languages . 
That is what is used throughout the document . 
Regional and lesser-used languages of the European Union . 
We seem to have passed over his proclamation that the British-led UN peacekeeping force in Afghanistan was to become an EU body . 
The key problem is that for this Presidency these last months have been a painful learning curve . 
The excessive aspirations of July , often misguided like ideas for a new Euro-tax on all EU citizens or a Tobin tax on capital movements , found themselves on a collision course with reality . 
Little progress was made at Laeken , or indeed , throughout the Belgian Presidency , on the competitiveness agenda in Europe . 
The Lisbon strategy , which has been grounded since Stockholm , now faces a moment of truth in Barcelona if we are truly to become the dynamic knowledge-based economy that is sought . 
Finally let me turn to the Declaration itself . 
The text acknowledges the EU 's failings in terms of democracy , transparency and closeness to people but seems to come up yet again with solutions on federal lines . 
These options represent the wrong route for Europe . 
The Convention should learn the lessons of the last decade , reject ambitions for a European super-state , and focus on modest and intelligent reforms which can really deliver a Europe that works . 
Prime Minister Aznar 's performance this morning suggests that his presidency promises to be focused and business-like and committed to addressing the big issues . 
The presidency has many tasks on the international front ; carrying forward the global war on terrorism is the most difficult and the most important . 
The presidency has promised to resolutely promote solidarity with the United States at this time of crisis , and it is right to do so , but other foreign problems will crowd in . 
In Zimbabwe we have a growing tragedy which requires urgent EU action : smart sanctions need to be introduced immediately and a clear message sent about the dangerous consequences of the criminal path on which Mr Mugabe is currently engaged . 
The presidency faces similar challenges on the economic front . 
If Europe is serious about making itself the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010 , then Barcelona promises to be a moment of truth . 
We simply can not afford continued failure . 
Europe has to get it right . 
Since Stockholm things have in fact moved backwards . 
The liberalising agenda has become bogged down by new social and environmental targets . 
This is a job-destroying agenda . 
In the target sectors for greater competition , the picture is frankly unacceptable . 
In financial services - telecoms for instance - liberalisation is proceeding too slowly . 
The freeing up of energy markets and postal services is way behind schedule . 
If Europe really wants to emerge as the global economic leader by the end of this decade , it must show real commitment . 
We need to make it easier to start and run a business and to keep and invest profits . 
That means a lot of vested interests will need to be confronted . 
We look to Prime Minister Aznar to lead the way . 
It will not , of course , stop job losses but it will prevent situations from arising where employees read that they are being made redundant in the newspaper . 
It will also enable preparations for large-scale job losses to be made if they are inevitable . 
It does not adversely affect the 97 % of companies with fewer than 50 workers that fall outside the terms of the directive . 
We saw this in my constituency , Wales , when Corus made 3,000 steelworkers redundant , with disastrous effects on many communities and no prior consultation with the workforce . 
The six-year exemption unfortunately shows that the UK Government has learned nothing from that experience and workers in Wales will continue to be amongst the most vulnerable in Europe to job losses . 
I hope it will not take six years before all workers in Europe enjoy the same rights . 
We can see that from the report that we are considering . 
Let us look at the things that unite us . 
Yes , I certainly believe in the rigorous application of state aid . 
We want the current regime to stay in place in some format . 
I hope that Commissioner Monti will feel after mature reflection that , given the difficulties with the United States of America , that is something he could support . 
Mr President , this week in Barcelona the European Council will gather in order to seek to build upon the Lisbon Process . 
At that meeting , we will be pressing for more action to be taken in relation to deregulation , for more liberalisation , ensuring that we learn the lessons of employment flexibility . 
There are those of us who have felt ever since we have arrived in the European Parliament that there is a lot of rhetoric in this place about free trade , but that there is also a great deal of protectionism with Member States here in Europe . 
The entire agenda in Europe of taking forward a uniform competition policy and bearing down on state aid is geared towards ensuring that we have free trade . 
In those circumstances , those of us who count ourselves as the best friends of the United States are hugely disappointed by the action that the US President has taken . 
It is not putting it too strongly to say that , in a sense , we feel betrayed by it . 
I do not link this to our support for the United States following the events of 11 September . 
The events of 11 September were so horrific that they should not be linked with any sort of agreement in any other policy area . 
But for those of us who have been pointing to the United States as an example of a deregulated and liberalised economy , it has been a shattering blow to see the way in which President Bush , faced with the difficulties that his steel industry is encountering , has gone for protectionism . 
The United States representatives watching this debate need to know that , while we may have heard from the usual suspects in terms of anti-Americanism , those of us who are friends of the United States feel very badly let down indeed . 
I would like to concentrate on those institutions that you have just mentioned . 
The exercise , of course , considers the expenditure , and assesses the effective use of European taxpayers ' money relating to those institutions . 
There is also reference in this report to the Council , which I will touch on later . 
Generally speaking there were no great concerns relating to the Court of Justice although we will clearly be following up some of the requests we have made to it on more detailed issues . 
We grant discharge to the Court of Justice . 
The Court of Auditors seems still reluctant to name Member States found wanting , and I warn the Court again that we will not rest until this request is complied with . 
More consumer-friendly reports would be welcome , as would a declaration of interests by the Court on the Internet , as is currently carried out by most of the other institutions . 
The Court must never feel itself to be too grand to conform to the standards we have learned to expect from other high-profile public servants . 
We grant discharge to the Court of Auditors , however . 
We grant discharge to the Ombudsman . 
The Committee of the Regions is also a relative newcomer to the European scene . 
It is good to see some shared expenditure with the Economic and Social Committee although at times this does not go far enough . 
A future report by the Committee on Budgetary Control may perhaps examine the value for money and impact assessment of this institution . 
Both the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions performed quite well in relation to the Belliard and Montoyer buildings and played quite a good game with the poor set of cards that were dealt to them unfairly by Parliament . 
We grant discharge to the Committee of the Regions . 
I turn now to the area where the report 's focus lies , and that is on the Economic and Social Committee : a committee which has been in existence since the beginning of this great project . 
Whilst the report recognises the Economic and Social Committee can act as a forum for interest groups which would otherwise not be able to make their voices heard in the EU context , developments over recent years - including , for example , the social protocol - must now be considered . 
The massive costs of financing this institution , which will reach almost EUR 100 million after enlargement , also gives us great concerns . 
Even amongst some trade unions , which are recognised by and which use the Institution , there is criticism . 
One prominent British trade union was prepared to say ` that the Economic and Social Committee appears to be redundant ; we would be content for it to be abolished ' . 
Another worrying aspect of the ESC came in their reaction to this report which claimed that the concept of value for money of a body established by the European Treaties is highly questionable and politically unjustifiable . 
Try telling that to the taxpayers of Europe ! 
I think it is pretty obvious , when you see reactions like that , there is not much accountability going on within the Economic and Social Committee . 
The Budgetary Control Committee is recommending that discharge be refused to the Economic and Social Committee for the years 1996 and 1997 . 
This is a historic move and it is not taken lightly . 
Only on two occasions before has the discharge been refused ; once of course which led to the forced resignation of the Commission in 1999 . 
It may perhaps seem strange that we have waited until now to assess the accounts and expenditure for 1996 . 
However , it has taken until now to receive objective clarification on irregularities relating to payments of members ' travel allowances . 
The whole sequence of events from the fraud itself involving 59 members of the Economic and Social Committee amounting to over EUR 1 million , to the scandalously relaxed attitude of Economic and Social Committee managers and their efforts to cover up the problem , to the botched and unprofessional approach of OLAF , the European Fraud Office , all reeks of incompetence , procrastination and amateurism . 
It has taken six years to get to the bottom of this fraud that occurred in 1996 . 
It is important that the Convention on the Future of Europe should take heed of the message in this report . 
I turn finally very briefly to the Council . 
Traditionally we have lumped this together with the Commission expenditure . 
This year , however , the Court of Auditors has prepared a critical report on the workings of the common foreign and security policy . 
This again is a fairly new area for the Council . 
The Committee on Budgetary Control has asked for answers and clarification on some of the issues on which the Court of Auditors has concerns . 
The Council is discussing that this morning , so we are waiting for the results from the Council before we take a vote on this . 
I hope you will bear that in mind when it comes to the vote . 
I hope that the Economic and Social Committee will deal with the fact that we have not given them discharge with the gravity that this issue deserves . 
The Budget Control Committee requested information from the Council on the common foreign and security policy . 
Initially , the Council was reluctant to provide this information which is why the text , as it stands at the moment , postpones discharge for the Council . 
Late last night , however , following a meeting of the Council Finance Ministers , they agreed to answer the questions by Friday of this week . 
Due to this change in the situation , and as I wish to avoid a clash with Council if at all possible , I would like to propose an oral amendment to Amendment No 4 , which has now not been withdrawn . 
This amendment is almost identical to the oral amendment relating to Amendment No 3 : `` Is grateful for the answers that , in principle , the Council has agreed to provide to questions relating to aspects of the common foreign and security policy within seven days '' . 
I am sorry if it is a bit complicated but it is because of the changing situation . 
We should acknowledge that as a major shift from the Council , which is why I am urging you to vote today in favour of the line that I have proposed . 
Mr President , I should like to begin by making two declarations of interest . 
The first is that I represent Wales in the European Parliament . 
Members may know that the risk capital action plan was first adopted at the Cardiff Summit , the capital city of Wales and also the city in which I live . 
However , a rather more direct financial interest is that I am a director of the National Farmers ' Union Mutual Insurance Company in the UK , one of the UK 's top ten insurance companies . 
I should mention that because some of my remarks will touch upon issues that are relevant in the insurance sector . 
I congratulate Mr Skinner for the work he has done on this report . 
It is traditional to say that but , in this instance , I really do value the hard work and commitment that he has given . 
He is a somewhat solitary figure on that particular side of the House in terms of the need to ensure that we develop the interests of business . 
Nonetheless , his is a voice that we welcome . 
His report is one that we welcome . 
My colleagues and I in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs have made some variations to the report which make it even more acceptable . 
This report is set within the context - I believe - of some of the failures of the venture capital industry . 
There have been such failures . 
The venture capital industry has been too focused on areas where there is already significant financial activity . 
That is why it is necessary for there to be some guidance in relation to the state aid rules . 
But I should like to caution Parliament in the light of some of my own experience of the history of the failure of government-sponsored forays into the whole venture capital area . 
First of all , people imagine that if there is some government-sponsored capital scheme it is bound to mean a guarantee of financial support . 
Secondly , what are the judgments as to which investments should be backed and which should not ? 
Who is making those judgments ? 
Thirdly , the effect that there can sometimes be in distorting markets and actually driving good competitors out of business . 
These are some of the cautions there may be . 
The report we are considering here gets this balance right but we still need to get away from the idea that government , in some sense , can resolve all of these issues . 
It is important that we deal with the promotion of entrepreneurship . 
We give too much lip service to this without effectively putting it into operation . 
In my own country we have Objective I status but getting the people who are involved in putting that plan into operation to recognise the importance of entrepreneurship is very difficult . 
Very often we have local and regional administrations run by the public sector who just regard this as yet another income stream . 
So there must be guidance in those areas as well . 
That is something that is recognised by the Commission and Mr Skinner as well . 
In this House we have to get away from demonising these organisations . 
These organisations are the ones that we look to for the funding to create the dynamic economy that we want to develop in Europe . 
There will be two benefits : we will create new businesses and employment opportunities and we will , at the same time , be funding , very often , income for retirement for European citizens . 
As a result of that we will be creating a virtuous circle of investment . 
That is a message that is not heard often enough in this Chamber . 
Mr President , I would first like to thank the Members who have visited the region recently and brought their first-hand experiences back to us here today . 
Like many other Members of the House , in the last few weeks I have met representatives from the Middle East who have come here to appeal for our help . 
Like Mrs Morgantini last week , I had the privilege of meeting very brave and very inspirational Israeli and Palestinian women who are working together for peace - peace between equals as they see it . 
They explained to us very vividly way just how desperate the situation is . 
The work that the Palestinians have done in building up the very basics of a state over the past 10 years is systematically being destroyed . 
Most of the women worked for NGOs and their files , computers and property had been destroyed so they could no longer continue their work . 
They were calling for a peacekeeping force to protect the people and I believe that we should support that call . 
A policy of force can never get rid of the levels of desperation and despair that lead to further acts of violence . 
There must be a just and peaceful solution for the long term , as well as a swift response to stop any further killing now . 
We must ensure that we keep up the pressure at all levels , in every way we can , to get that lasting peace . 
Mr President , in common with the majority of European Union citizens , I believe that the use of live animals in cosmetic testing is an unnecessary and unacceptable practice and must be banned . 
Over 8,000 ingredients have already been cleared for use in cosmetics . 
How many more new products do we need ? 
What is going to provide the incentive for commercial companies to develop alternative testing methods ? 
Secondly , a complete test ban , with a definite date by which it will come into force . 
I believe anything less than this to be insufficient and unsatisfactory and I know my constituents share that view . 
Banning cosmetic testing will not mean that consumers will be sold unsafe products , but will mean an end to a great deal of animal suffering . 
We would have voted for it if it had in any way impinged upon the right of the Gibraltar inhabitants to participate in the next European Parliament elections . 
The minutes statement that is attached to this report from the UK Government makes it clear that it is the UK Government 's sole responsibility to ensure that the legislation is put in place for Gibraltarians to vote in those elections . 
I would like to take this brief opportunity to urge the UK Government to live up to that minutes statement and put that legislation in place so that Gibraltarians are able to participate in the electoral process electing representatives who will have an influence over laws which apply in Gibraltar . 
Mr President , I just wish to declare that , due to a financial interest which has been registered with the parliamentary authorities , I will not be participating in this vote . 
Mr President , I have to begin by saying that all my remarks in relation to the Seville Summit have been spoiled by Mr Watson 's speech . 
I am afraid , Prime Minister Aznar , I can not get out of my mind this image of you endeavouring to seduce `` Carmen '' Tony Blair . 
I was going to begin by saying what a great encouragement and example you have been to the centre-right parties in Europe . 
Very many of the political successes we have seen during the course of recent months have been because of the good example you have set . 
However , looking at the agenda at Seville and the areas where we would wish to see greater progress , I have to say that I am a little disappointed at the economic reform package . 
I do not blame you for that , Prime Minister , I blame recalcitrant governments elsewhere in Europe . 
However , there is no doubt that there is too much complacency about corporate governance issues in the United States and about the assumption that the Lisbon agenda will just in some way be delivered without there being marked change here within Europe . 
The Prime Minister understands that , but I am not sure that many other Member State governments do . 
In relation to terrorism and illegal immigration , it is quite right that you have put those matters at the forefront . 
Much has been said about them . 
I merely endorse the remarks and your support for raising those matters in terms of the overall agenda . 
In relation to enlargement , certainly my party looks for considerable progress in negotiations on the CAP and structural reform . 
We look with some interest at what may happen in Ireland in the referendum , which may turn upon the charms of our President . 
This brings me back to the compelling image of `` Carmen '' Blair , because when it comes to Council reform - the concept of having a five-year presidency - maybe we would regard you as being the ideal candidate for that role , but Mr Blair has been telling our House of Commons that he - not you - is the man who set the agenda at Seville . 
He did not say it once , he said it five times ! 
His Europe Minister said that it was Mr Blair 's agenda that is being set . 
I would just ask you to reconsider the whole story of Carmen because I do not think that she was necessarily a totally reliable person to be engaged in seduction . 
Mr President , these reports are about allowing people the choice whether or not to eat GM food . 
The only way to do that is with an effective labelling and traceability scheme that will tell consumers exactly what they want to know , which is whether the food or feed is being produced using GMOs . 
That means labelling food and feed that contain GMOs or have been produced with GMOs , so that when people pick up a packet or a tin in a shop , they can see if this is a GM product or not . 
That effect would not be achieved with a GM-free label . 
Apart from the difficulty of ensuring that products are 100 % GM-free , why should we put all of the responsibility , expense and inconvenience on to those who do not use GMOs ? 
That would push up the price of GM-free goods and put them out of the reach of many consumers . 
Those who use GMOs should have the legal obligation to label and to take all steps necessary to avoid contaminating conventional or organic produce . 
Talking about thresholds for adventitious or accidental contamination but then making those who do not use GMOs responsible for meeting those thresholds contradicts the ` polluter pays ' principle . 
We should reject any threshold for unauthorised GMOs , which should not be allowed to reach the market . 
In the case of approved GMOs , however , we should accept only the lowest achievable tolerance level . 
This means that the most recent state of science and technology will be taken into account . 
I know from the response from my own constituents that consumers are extremely concerned about this issue and are strongly in favour of the traceability and labelling of GM food and animal feed . 
I also know that many major voluntary organisations , consumer organisations and supermarkets strongly support this kind of scheme . 
I hope that tomorrow this Parliament will adopt a stringent scheme to give consumers the real choice and the confidence that they are demanding of us . 
Mr President , firstly I echo Mrs Dybkjær 's comments and thank the Commissioner also for her work . 
We are only too aware , as other speakers have said , that we have a long way to go in terms of gender equality within the EU institutions , as well as in society as a whole . 
We could not have a clearer reflection of this than the make-up of the Convention on the future of Europe . 
Only 16 % of the members are women on a body which is directly involved in planning the whole future of Europe . 
In terms of actions for 2002 , I would particularly like to welcome the Commission 's commitment to providing gender-specific data , gender progress indicators and gender impact assessments in policy areas that have not yet been mainstreamed . 
This has to be addressed now , as other speakers have said . 
I would also like to mention some of the new Commission proposals noted in this report , such as the conference on rural women to be held in October . 
This is extremely important given the crisis that many of our rural areas have suffered , particularly in the past 18 months and the specific needs of women who live and work in rural areas . 
As Mrs Avilés Perea said , gender should be central to the round-table discussion on social exclusion and poverty . 
The work programme for 2002 is more developed and ambitious than this year and hopefully on the basis of this report we can make significant progress . 
Mr President , I am pleased to speak on this report on the transboundary movement of GMOs in which the Committee on the Environment has adopted a more stringent and more comprehensive position than that proposed by the Commission , following the lead given by the rapporteur . 
I would like to add to what colleagues have said in thanking him for his work . 
I also welcome the fact that the Committee on the Environment expanded the regulation to cover food and feed which have been produced from or with the aid of GMOs , as well as GMOs intended for contained use . 
The report shows that whilst the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety is a good basic framework for regulating the transboundary movement of GMOs , this is a minimum , a base line from which parties can and should be proactive in aiming for ever higher standards of control to meet the demands of the consumer . 
This includes , as many colleagues have already mentioned , the right of freedom of choice . 
We are only too aware of the recent examples of food aid to developing countries being cynically used to force GM food on people , to promote GM food and to force countries that have declared themselves GM-free to accept GM grain . 
The European Union , in cases such as this , buys local non-GM food , adhering to the principles and the rules of the recipient countries in a manner in keeping with the ethos of the Cartagena Protocol . 
On the other hand , in the past two years Bolivia , Colombia , Guatemala , Nicaragua and Ecuador have all been forced to accept GM food aid even though this was contrary to their national regulations . 
I welcome the committee 's report which clearly allows for countries to take more proactive steps to ensure international biosafety . 
Mr President , since we are all having a go at the common agricultural policy , I too would like to state a few facts in relation to it . 
In the UK this weekend there was a huge rally - Liberty and Livelihood - where thousands of people gathered in London to protest at various problems relating to the countryside . 
When we see 40 % of the EU budget going to 5 % of the EU population then the policy is clearly in need of radical reform . 
These are key areas . 
But the most important issue here today is transparency . 
Why is it that , while I can go to a website and find out where every single euro in relation to regional policy and Structural Funds is paid out in my area , I can not do the same in relation to the common agricultural policy ? 
That possibility does not exist and it is a possibility I want to see created . 
That is the relationship the taxpayers of Europe need to have with the recipients of this funding : in that way perhaps we will be able to see how much Prince Charles , the Queen and the rest of the royal family receive in relation to subsidies granted under the common agricultural policy . 
We need to crack this open . 
It is crucial that we get the support of the people who call repeatedly in this House for transparency . 
That is what we are asking for . 
The Commission needs to cooperate much more closely with Member States across the whole of the European Union to ensure that this is the case . 
Mr President , I was one of the Members who attended the summit in Johannesburg and was fortunate enough to meet some of the thousands who went there from all over the world to focus attention on the need for people-centred policies . 
We heard over and over again that the summit had to change the lives of the poorest people in the world if it was to be a success . 
We did not expect dramatic changes and we did not get them , but there was some modest progress . 
For example we saw a move towards achieving better governance . 
This brings us to the central question of enforcement and monitoring . 
We know from experience since Rio that it is one thing to make agreements but another to ensure they are implemented . 
We welcome the possibility at last of bringing the Kyoto Protocol into force , but it has been a long and difficult process . 
Although the Johannesburg Declaration includes a commitment to an inclusive process , which means involving the kinds of groups that met around the summit , how is this going to be done ? 
Similarly the regional and local level are important . 
We know how the private sector is going to be involved , but how will different levels of government be involved ? 
This takes away freedom of choice , undermines human dignity and works against sustainability . 
We must continue to resist it . 
Mr President , I would like to welcome the Commission 's action plan on skills and mobility and Mrs Bastos ' report . 
Whilst it is the lack of jobs rather than the lack of mobility which is the main problem for the unemployed in Europe , the issues identified by the Commission taskforce are very important . 
I would like to make a few specific points that were highlighted by the Women 's Rights and Equal Opportunities Committee : 
This would be a good example for other policy areas . 
Second , regional initiatives are proposed to support training for women in occupations where they are not equally represented . 
The revised Equal Treatment Directive allows Member States to provide such additional vocational training in areas such as the scientific sector and this should be built on in the action plan . 
Third , the action plan proposes the formation of industrial , educational and other advisory bodies . 
Whilst I know that membership of these bodies is not always within the Commission 's jurisdiction , a clause requiring the Commission to ensure equal representation when possible sends everyone involved a very clear message that this is desirable and expected . 
Geographical mobility means more , of course , than simply getting a job in a different place . 
There are other issues to be taken into account , particularly for workers with children : access to housing , social services , good quality education and childcare . 
The report makes several points which I welcome and which are important to women , such as qualifying periods for supplementary pension rights - as mentioned by the Commissioner - and the use of best practice to encourage more young women to take an interest in mathematics , science and technology . 
I hope Parliament will support the report . 
Mr President , the aim of this regulation is to ensure consistency in the rules for travelling with pet animals , commonly known as the pet passport scheme . 
The fact that the Commission has been able to bring forward such a proposal reflects the incredible success of the steps taken over recent years to control rabies . 
It is worth repeating the figures : cases among cats and dogs have fallen from nearly 500 in 1991 to just 5 in 1998 . 
As the Member States started to adopt their own rules for the increased movement of pet animals , it became clear that a European system was needed to make it easier for pet owners and avoid confusion . 
I am pleased that Parliament 's amendments , adopted in the common position , called for detailed information for consumers so that they can make the necessary preparations before travelling . 
Members will recall that this was one of the main issues at first reading . 
The Commission proposed a double legal base , whereas Parliament 's view was that , since the main aim of this regulation was to protect public health , a single legal base should apply . 
However , following the receipt of the common position , the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy , has accepted the double legal base . 
Secondly , trade . 
Once the Council has included measures on trade within the regulation , as requested by Parliament , the distinction between commercial and non-commercial movement is still not defined clearly enough . 
Under the Council proposal , the maximum number of five animals that can be moved under this regulation is fine . 
But if the purpose of the regulation is primarily to protect public health , then the number of animals being transported is not relevant . 
We have therefore tabled amendments deleting the maximum number . 
Thirdly , identification . 
Parliament previously called for ISO standard transponders to be used and for the owner 's name and address to be included . 
The Commission and the Council proposals allowed for other types of transponders to be used , as long as the owner carried the means to read the information . 
As ISO chips are not available in all countries , the Committee on the Environment has agreed to remove the requirement for ISO standard equipment , but still wants the owner 's details to be included . 
This would help combat trafficking in pet animals . 
We strongly believe that electronic identification is more effective , humane and reliable than tattoos and that , after the transitional eight-year period , only microchips would be acceptable . 
The fourth point relates to young animals . 
The Committee has re-tabled the amendments preventing the movement of animals under three months old without the requirements of this scheme . 
This would not be applicable to the United Kingdom , Ireland or Sweden , but it would apply to the other Member States . 
I do not believe that it is possible for the authorities to carry out proper checks on young animals , for instance ensuring that they have remained at the place of birth or have not had any contact with wild animals . 
This therefore leaves a loophole for trade in puppies and kittens particularly . 
The fifth point concerns the involvement of Parliament . 
Several of our amendments relate to Parliament 's involvement in decisions such as the extension of the transitional measures for the three sensitive Member States and to comitology - retaining Parliament 's right to be consulted . 
Finally , the OIE International Animal Health Code . 
The committee has retained the requirement to take into account the OIE Code when deciding on the health status of third countries in the scheme . 
This has been a subject of some debate . 
I am aware that the Council felt that the OIE Code would exclude large parts of the EU from free movement of animals , especially after enlargement . 
I also know that countries such as the United Kingdom are moving away from rabies-free status because it would exclude , for example , Canada and the USA , but the committee has decided to adopt a cautious approach . 
I believe that each of these issues can be resolved without too much difficulty and I ask Parliament to support the position of the Committee on the Environment . 
I must say that I am disappointed that , despite my best efforts , an agreement could not be reached with the Council before the second reading and I am very grateful to the shadow rapporteurs from the other groups , the representatives of the presidency and the Commission for their cooperation in our discussions over the past three weeks . 
I believe that Parliament has taken a very constructive approach and we will continue to do so in order to reach agreement as soon as possible . 
Mr President , as we are political anoraks in the Committee on Budgetary Control and there are a lot more people listening to us tonight , I will try and explain to them what is going on because budgetary control and discharge are really not terms that normal people understand . 
One of the primary tasks of the European Parliament is to assess the way the Commission is functioning . 
We are here to make sure that the Commission carries out its work properly . 
Therefore when people say that the Commission is unelected , we can tell them that we keep the Commission under control and hold them to account . 
One of our formal responsibilities is to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget . 
We have to be able to account to the people who elect us and explain to them how their money is spent . 
The Committee on Budgetary Control is the principal committee responsible for leading this task on behalf of the European Parliament : we scrutinise budget lines , follow up potential scandals , we see how the money is being misspent and we try and find out why processes are so complex and cumbersome . 
It was the discharge procedure that ultimately led to the forced resignation of the Commission back in 1999 . 
That is what started the whole process . 
However , there is a danger - we must not be naive about what is going on - that the whole process could be hijacked for more sinister and for more political motives . 
It has become almost established practice within the Committee on Budgetary Control to postpone the discharge and to ask for more information . 
That means that there are now three options . 
In the past there were two options : we could give or refuse discharge . 
Now , as Mr Bourlanges has explained , we can give , refuse or postpone discharge . 
It is much easier if we have only two options and that is what is being put to us today . 
The Commissioner has a point when she says that the Commission could probably comply more quickly . 
I do not see this October part-session as the date by which we have to have the answer . 
That is the latest point at which Parliament gives its decision . 
We do not have to stick to October , but we have to do it by October . 
That is a slightly different interpretation . 
It is clear that we all want to complete it before the summer . 
It is also right that the Commission should have this additional breathing space , because if Members refuse discharge and want to criticise the Commission , then it needs time to try to put things right . 
It is what happened in the 1996 discharge - it just carried on . 
We are giving you an end date , we are telling Parliament that by this time it has to decide one way or the other . 
That is why this system is much better . 
The situation is clearer and the process will not be hijacked for political aims . 
Mr President , on behalf of the Committee on Women 's Rights and Equal Opportunities , I welcome the communication on this strategy for health and safety at work . 
I would particularly like to congratulate Mr Hughes on his report . 
As he said , I have been very pleased with the way that our committees have worked together on this issue and , in particular , the cooperation with the rapporteur which has ensured that the points made by the Committee on Women 's Rights have been fully taken on board . 
This is important because , while men are more often the victims of serious accidents at work , women tend to suffer for longer periods of time from work-related illnesses . 
Adult women receive less vocational training and education than their male colleagues . 
That is why it is so important that we have a gender breakdown of statistics on work-related ill health and accidents for full-time , part-time and temporary employment . 
The Commissioner agreed that gender must be mainstreamed throughout this strategy so that issues such as the effect of the double workload of paid employment and personal responsibilities and issues such as harassment in the workplace are properly addressed . 
If risk assessment and workplace design fail to take gender into account , women will continue to be prevented from entering certain professions and sectors . 
An evaluation of current health and safety law is needed so that we can identify problem areas to make future legislation more effective . 
I totally support the rapporteur in his comments on the lack of resources in the Commission to deal with health and safety policy and , in particular , the need for a detailed and costed action plan and a very strict timetable for improving legislation in this very important area . 
Mr President , the Brussels Summit was above all about enlargement of the European Union . 
The British Conservative Party has argued strongly and consistently in favour of the enlargement eastwards of the EU since the Berlin Wall fell some 13 years ago . 
Indeed , the manifesto on which I and my colleagues were elected in 1999 states quite clearly the reasons why we support this process so enthusiastically . 
It stated that enlargement is an historic opportunity to advance the principles for which Europe should stand : free trade , free markets , deregulation and cooperation . 
It would also mean more trade , more stability and more prosperity for the existing Member States of the European Union . 
Furthermore , the European Union simply can not ignore the moral duty that it owes to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe . 
At Brussels , significant progress was made towards achieving agreement on the entry of 10 applicant states at the Copenhagen Council in December . 
My party warmly welcomes this . 
Europe will be a better place as a result of enlargement and I congratulate the Danish Presidency on the skill and the commitment it has displayed in reaching this point . 
However , given the fact that we have waited 13 years for this historic moment , I want to reiterate that there must be no foot-dragging , no more delays and no more last-minute vested interests should be allowed to stand in the way . 
On no account should we allow budgetary discussions to be derailed by reopening issues that have been long settled , in particular , the continuation of the British budgetary abatement , which was agreed unanimously by heads of government at Berlin in 1999 . 
This budgetary abatement is both fair and justified and any attempt to use it as a smokescreen to disguise unwillingness to reform the CAP must be dismissed as political opportunism . 
I regret the fact that those Member States which most actively promote CAP reform , including the British Prime Minister , were so comprehensively out-manoeuvred at Brussels . 
I hope they recover their negotiating skills by the time we get to Copenhagen . 
Mr President , I have had the privilege of working for the past three years on the EU-Lithuania Joint Parliamentary Committee , where we have had to deal with several difficult issues which have already been mentioned , so I will not repeat them . 
The determination of the candidate countries to overcome these problems and work positively has resulted in incredible progress . 
For a small country like Wales , which I represent , it is also significant that many other small countries will be represented here in the European Parliament in their own right . 
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance wants a Europe in which these small nations and regions play a significant role and where , at a future date , countries like Wales will have the same rights as our friends from the ten candidate countries . 
They must ensure that there is respect for minorities and that further steps are taken towards regionalisation . 
We must work towards a real Europe of the peoples , with equal rights and equal respect for everyone . 
Mr President , I would also like to thank the Court of Auditors for its report again this year . 
I am extremely disappointed that this is the first occasion on which the Court has been able to present its audit this year . 
I think it is one of the primary responsibilities of this Parliament and I am very saddened that it has taken it until December to put on the agenda something that came out in November . 
It is over-complicated and is badly presented . 
We hope , President , that you will continue in your efforts to make this clearer in future . 
The main issue on which the Budget Control Committee is likely to concentrate this year is of course the accounting system of the Commission . 
This is not because Marta Andreassen has told us that we should do that , but because the Court has been pointing out these failures since 1994 . 
The fact is that the Commission has been extremely slow in instigating those reforms and we still are unlikely to see a complete radical reform until 2005 . 
I think this is an unacceptable degree of complacency . 
We must go much further and set a more ambitious timetable . 
The Court has also been remiss in the fact that they have failed again to name and shame Member States who have failed to control EU spending and I do not think we are ever going to identify the real culprits until the Court of Auditors stops being quite so cowardly and starts naming people . 
It is also worth noting , as people have said before , that this is the first year when Directors General have taken control of their own departments but 22 of those DGs have expressed reservations and we will be investigating those during our research . 
An issue that many are keen to follow is also the failure of the Commission to fine Member States who infringe EU directives and I would just like to warn the Commission that we are going to take this issue a lot more seriously . 
We want to see more money coming into EU coffers from the fines that should be imposed on Members States who fail to respect directives . 
Mr President , it is estimated that around 12 million vertebrate animals are used annually in the European Union for the development and the testing of drugs , vaccines , chemicals and other products . 
A further nine million are bred and destroyed as surplus to requirements . 
Since Directive 86/609 , which controls the use of animals in experiments , was first implemented more than 16 years ago , a great deal has changed . 
The original purpose of the Directive was to avoid distortions in trade . 
The European Union did not then have a duty , as it does now , to consider the welfare of animals in agriculture , research , transport or single market policies . 
Today , animal welfare is the subject of extensive public debate and interest and concern about the use of animals has escalated . 
Also , enormous progress has been made in scientific knowledge and practice . 
For these reasons , as well as deficiencies in the actual operation of the Directive , with many cases of infringement action taken by the Commission over the years , it is clear that this Directive is in urgent need of revision . 
The Commission has already made a commitment to review the Directive next year . 
I hope that the points on which we have focussed in this report will guide their work because there are many lessons to be learnt . 
The first is the need for a central European Union inspectorate to coordinate the work of inspectors in the Member States but with the power to visit facilities and revoke licences if necessary . 
There is great variation between the Member States in the way that information is collated and in the way that replacement , reduction and refinement are applied . 
For example , the Commission has already published two sets of statistics on the number and use of animals in experiments . 
We need data to be published annually and in a standard format . 
The use of alternative testing methods is , of course , central . 
Animal experiments should be seen as exceptions to the rule rather than normal scientific procedures . 
Work on alternatives is progressing fast . 
This is where Member States should be concentrating and giving priority . 
Related to this is Article 7 ( 2 ) of this Directive , which states that animals should be used for experiments only where there is no scientifically viable alternative . 
Given that the Commission does not currently require detailed information on statistics , it is impossible to monitor whether this article is actually being implemented . 
That is why the report recommends a central EU database including information on all animal experiments approved , currently performed and finalised . 
This would allow for EU-wide checks to ensure that article was being implemented and that experiments were not being duplicated . 
While the number of animals used for experiments had appeared to be reducing , the use of transgenic animals is rising . 
This is something that could not have been foreseen in 1986 when the Directive was adopted . 
There is inadequate provision for it in the Directive as a result . 
Transgenic animals must be included . 
Finally , many complaints from NGOs and other bodies and organisations relate to breaches of Article 5 on the general care and accommodation of animals . 
This can largely be overcome by an EU-wide standard training course including animal welfare and the ethics of experiments . 
There are four amendments to the report . 
I would like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on the Environment . 
I would also like to thank Mr Nisticò in particular for discussing his amendments with me . 
I regret that I can not support amendments 1 and 2 as they weaken the report considerably on a point which is of great concern , that is , the use of primates , especially wild caught primates . 
I can support Amendment No 3 . 
I believe there is general agreement in Parliament and in the Commission that Directive 86/609 is neither suitable nor effective today and that we need new legislation . 
I hope that the Commission will take up Parliament 's recommendations . 
Mr President , in this Chamber we are very frequently engaged in debating what we consider to be the great political issues . 
But I seem to remember that when we were elected in 1999 our greatest concern was how we made our debates relevant to our electors . 
I want to tell you that the area that I represent here in Parliament - the constituency of Wales - is a country that was markedly affected by the foot and mouth outbreak . 
We sometimes do not recognise the sense of isolation that was felt by many farmers and by other people living in rural areas because of the devastating economic and other impacts of this outbreak . 
I therefore want to begin by thanking the committee for visiting Welshpool , Builth Wells and Sennybridge and meeting people within my constituency who said to Mr Kreissl-Dörfler that the European Parliament was the only official body that came to listen to their views . 
Secondly , I am sorry we had such difficulty in establishing the committee . 
We all recognise that it was just one group that was opposed to setting up the committee . 
Mr Kreissl-Dörfler , though coming from that group , has been a paragon in approaching this issue in a non-political way . 
Contrary to the views of the people who said that this exercise was going to be irrelevant , Commissioner , we are looking forward to your statement tomorrow , and to having a statement that addresses the concerns outlined by the committee that have emerged in the course of the last year . 
All I want to say is this : this is a report that had almost universal support in committee . 
I am sorry that some additional amendments have been tabled because we should cling to the consensus that is within the report . 
It is the best example , in my view , of the European Parliament addressing the concerns of voters in a practical way . 
It is a huge example for the future relevance of the European Parliament . 
It is a tragedy that at the last minute there are some people who still feel it is appropriate , rather churlishly , to protect the reputation of the UK Government . 
We are engaged in much more important things than that . 
I ask you to look at the report as it came out of the committee and to respond accordingly , Commissioner . 
Madam President , one of the great disadvantages of this Parliament is that it is never short of superlatives when it comes to heaping praise upon the presidencies that take place in this regular six-monthly cycle . 
The disadvantage is that when we really have some genuine praise to give , it does not come with the force that is deserved . 
For my part , Mr Rasmussen has been an outstanding President of the Council . 
I would like , on behalf of my party , to congratulate him , coming from - and here I adopt what our President said - not one of the largest European countries . 
I had said smallest but I obey the President 's edict on this . 
I am bound to say too that my own prime minister may have some personal aspirations for the presidency of the Council if it works on a five-yearly cycle , but I very much hope that Mr Rasmussen has now entered the field in that regard . 
It is quite right that reference was made to the visionary words of Pope John Paul many years ago . 
I want to make some reference to Margaret Thatcher 's own words at Bruges . 
These words have sadly become synonymous with euroscepticism , but the real message that Margaret Thatcher gave at Bruges was about a wider Europe . 
In those circumstances her message about Europe not becoming so inward-looking is one that has been carried forward by Mr Rasmussen and is one that we all celebrate today . 
I also endorse the remarks of Mr Verheugen . 
Sometimes we adopt too much of a patronising attitude towards these candidate countries . 
We have to recognise that both Parliament and peoples will need to ratify entry . 
I hope we learn the lesson of Nice . 
That is a message for all of us here . 
The élites within Europe do not recognise that we have to treat these countries with the respect that they deserve , not only because we want them to vote positively on entry , but because the institutions that we have must become more accountable and more responsive . 
That is what the Convention is supposed to be all about . 
We have a structured design for six countries which is now difficult to operate on the basis of 15 countries and which shortly will be a mechanism that will have to serve the interests of 25 countries . 
The Convention should not become tied down in a debate covering only institutional matters , but must shift its focus to demonstrate how Europe can become a much more accountable and responsive institution for the future . 
Mr President , I welcome the opportunity for debate on this report , on what is an important issue for all our countries . 
I am grateful to Mr Mantovani for his work . 
Caring for the ageing population throughout Europe will be one of the biggest challenges facing the Member States in the future . 
Although , as has already been said , the organisation of health care is a matter reserved for Member States , they can not do this in isolation . 
That is why my group welcomes the cooperation suggested by the Commission , in terms of exchanging information and best practice and developing common quality standards . 
The current provision and funding systems for care of the elderly vary greatly throughout Europe , from comprehensive free care with financial risks spread throughout the population to state funding as a last resort safety net . 
Drawing comparisons and exploring the care systems within Member States could be a valuable way of highlighting successful solutions . 
I welcome the reference in Mr Mantovani 's report to social care as well as health care , as the combination of both is an essential element in the welfare of older people . 
If those responsible for health and social policy took a real life-long approach to preventing disease and disability and viewed health promotion and prevention as the cornerstone of a ` foresighted policy ' , in the words of the report , this would not only improve health but would also cut costs . 
The reduction in costs would not be temporary or short term , but long term . 
For example , we know that older women and people in rural areas experience greater levels of poverty . 
In my constituency in Wales , three out of five older people live in poverty . 
Most pensioners depend entirely on their state pension or other state benefits as their only income . 
More people have long-term illnesses in Wales than in England or Scotland . 
These facts are not unrelated . 
Some methods of health prevention and early detection of illness are essential . 
Hand-in-hand with this is the importance of a multi-agency approach to coordinating care and a multi-sectoral approach to policy-making , to include social , employment , environmental and economic considerations as well as the need to involve users and their families . 
The elderly play a very valuable role in our society . 
Life-long learning , communication between the generations , voluntary work and similar issues on which the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has done a lot of work are intrinsically related to this discussion . 
Trying to establish a free market of care and treatment and harmonising health care systems has its dangers . 
Meeting the Stability Pact requirements , whilst providing the necessary funding for health , welfare and social services , is a major challenge . 
Health care , as I said earlier , is the responsibility of the Member States . 
The references in this report to an internal market in health services and products reflects the move towards liberalisation . 
As has been seen time after time and as we see in the private finance initiative in health services in the UK , privatisation does not improve services or reduce costs , but leads to longer waiting lists , worse levels of care and staff shortages . 
My group believes that health care and the care of the elderly is too important to be put at risk by privatisation and the GATS Agreement . 
The focus of this report and one of the main issues in this debate must be equality of access . 
I would ask , therefore , for support of Amendment No 6 , to call for exemption of health and care services from GATS , ensuring that the very good proposals made by Mr Mantovani - which I hope will be adopted by Parliament tomorrow - can be implemented and services to older people secured for the long term . 
Madam President , there is currently a serious humanitarian crisis in North Korea . 
In bitter winter conditions , the combination of few or no energy sources and lack of food is crippling . 
So the Verts/ALE Group welcomes the Commission 's decision to provide EUR 9.5 million in food aid to North Korea . 
But there is a need to reconsider fundamentally our approach to ensuring energy supplies . 
The Korean Energy Development Organisation , KEDO , was unsuited to meeting the country 's needs and infrastructure , and this situation can not be allowed to continue . 
We need to look again at our policy of cooperation with North Korea in terms of a poverty alleviation programme to offset the effects of introducing a market economy , democratic reforms and respect for human rights , and official diplomatic recognition for North Korea by other states as well as the European Union . 
This would open up opportunities for North Korea to access funds from the IMF , the Asian Development Bank and others . 
The key , as Mr Swoboda said earlier in this debate , is to continue to talk , to continue with the negotiations and , above all , to work for a peaceful solution to this crisis . 
Mr President , it is chilling to see how the preparations to invade Iraq have gathered pace , despite the extra time given to the weapons inspectors which , of course , we all welcome . 
We are seeing a situation where the most powerful country in the world has made clear its determination to wage war against Iraq , with or without United Nations backing and whether or not the weapons inspectors find any weapons of mass destruction . 
A pre-emptive attack like this would set a new international precedent that has no basis in the United Nations Charter . 
Such a war on Iraq would be immoral , unjustifiable and illegal . 
It would make the world a much more dangerous place , causing more resentment and fuelling more terrorism . 
The victims , as always , would be the innocent civilians : the hundreds of thousands of men and women and particularly the children who have already suffered years of oppression , hardship and sanctions which have put them under the complete control of Saddam Hussein . 
There is already a humanitarian crisis in Iraq and now the people are being threatened again . 
Britain has already announced the deployment of some 30,000 troops and the United States 130,000 troops which are being mobilised in readiness to attack . 
Opposition to this war is growing with every day that passes by groups of people of all ages , from all walks of life , and on 15 February 2003 there are going to be peace demonstrations right around the world . 
Those of us elected by the people in Europe can speak in this Parliament on behalf of so many of them who are saying no to war . 
I have received many letters from Wales and from other countries asking the European Parliament to do everything that it can to try and stop this war . 
Peaceful means of solving the problems have not been properly explored , let alone exhausted . 
It is tragic that if a fraction of the effort made by the United States and the United Kingdom to kindle their support for war had been put into bringing peace in the Middle East , we would live in a much safer and more peaceful world . 
Mr President , in the light of the UN inspectors ' report to the UN Security Council on Monday , and ten years of Iraq 's deception , evasion and non-compliance with Security Council resolutions , it should be clear to everybody here that we are facing a very grave situation in the Gulf . 
The starting point in this whole debate must be that we are representatives of democratic nations . 
Saddam Hussein is a dictator who has no respect for democracy , for the rule of law or for the demands of the United Nations itself . 
As democrats we have a responsibility to explain fully the reasons why it may be necessary to take action in order to uphold the will of the international community , which is that Saddam Hussein should unconditionally disarm . 
This issue is not simply about the work of UN inspectors ; rather , it is about disarming Saddam Hussein of his weapons of mass destruction . 
These weapons were there when the inspectors had to leave in 1999 - where are they now ? 
In my view , the British Prime Minister has a special responsibility to explain clearly the reasons why we must confront the threat from Iraq 's weapons of mass destruction . 
Sadly I must say that , to date , his own government has not been as united and clear on this issue as I feel we in the United Kingdom are entitled to expect . 
We are disappointed at Mr Blair 's inability to sufficiently persuade public opinion in the United Kingdom of the need to be prepared to take action , in the face of what is very clearly a real threat to the security of our people . 
In the United Kingdom we have seen during the course of the last fortnight or so very clear instances of the existence of that real threat . 
A collective failure to confront the gravity of the situation with unity and with determination only gives Saddam Hussein succour ; not to be prepared to take action - if he continues to obstruct and to lie - would be an open invitation to any rogue state to do anything it likes and still not face serious consequences . 
It would also leave the United States itself , and the United Nations particularly , weak and impotent . 
Clearly , should the situation not improve in the weeks ahead , a second UN resolution may be required . 
That is , however , the optimum option ahead of any military engagement in the Gulf . 
Having listened to General Morillon , I take the view that the international Community still has the right to act without any such new resolution , as the powers are already vested in earlier UN resolutions . 
The position of the French and German Governments in recent days , as well as many of the contributions and demonstrations that have been made in this Chamber this afternoon , clearly show that any prospect of a common foreign and security policy is fallacious . 
I do not make any partisan political point on this , but we are surely fooling ourselves as European Parliamentarians if we believe that we are anywhere near developing a common foreign and security policy or anything like it - we clearly are not . 
In the days and weeks ahead , we need steady nerves and an effective United Nations . 
We must ensure Saddam Hussein understands that his failure to comply with the will of the international community will result in serious consequences . 
Equally , we must also ensure that public opinion in the West and elsewhere understands and appreciates why we must be prepared to take action in defence of the international interest . 
Political leaders must have the courage to face up to such threats ; otherwise the credibility of the United Nations itself will be at stake and Saddam Hussein will have prevailed . 
If the western nations had sent a stronger and more unified message to Saddam Hussein from the start and maintained their resolve , then perhaps we would not have to be contemplating military intervention today . 
Mr President , since submitting that request to you I now speak not just on behalf of the 36 Members but on behalf of my group . 
I wish to draw the House 's attention to reports which have appeared in the Belgian , German and UK newspapers this weekend which relate to quite serious allegations that the European Parliament and also Members of the Commission may have been misled in relation to elements of the evidence in the Andreasen affair . 
The Commission can not choose to engage in selective briefing of extracts from Commission papers and then claim general confidentiality in relation to those same documents in the context of the framework agreement . 
For that reason , I propose to the House that tomorrow at 5 p.m. , when the Commission attends , the Commission should explain its position in relation to this document , which is allegedly a report from the head of internal audit making these serious allegations . 
That document should be published and this House should be in a position to form a view in relation to it . 
I therefore ask for the House 's agreement to my proposal that the Commission is requested to come to this House at 5 p.m. tomorrow in order to deal with these serious allegations . 
Mr President , this is a very special day for me in the European Parliament . 
I have heard speeches from Mr Cohn-Bendit and Mr Le Pen which I consider to be indistinguishable . 
Since we last debated the Iraq crisis the stakes have increased . 
The clear issue remains that Saddam is still playing for time . 
The United Nations call for disarmament , as set out very clearly and unanimously by Resolution 1441 , today continues to be unfulfilled . 
That is the truth of the situation we face . 
We recognise that this situation is dangerous and volatile , but let us be clear that it remains dangerous and volatile thanks to the continuing evasion of the Iraqi regime and , sadly , also the gamesmanship of some European governments . 
These governments appear to have lost sight of the fundamental issue that is at stake here , which is the very real threat that the regime in Baghdad poses to the peace and security of the Middle East and indeed to the wider world . 
Even at this late stage let us not forget that Saddam refuses to explain what has happened to the stockpile of chemical weapons , biological weapons and nerve agents that were detected by the UN inspectors in 1998 . 
Unless the democracies of the world are prepared to speak out with a united voice on the need for immediate and unconditional disarmament , there is no doubt that Saddam Hussein will continue on his current road of playing cat and mouse with the United Nations on an indefinite basis . 
I must say that the events of recent months have also demonstrated two important truths for us here in the European Parliament and for Europe more generally . 
Firstly , we undermine the unity of NATO at our peril . 
Some anti-American voices in Europe have been playing out their contempt for all things American , and we may hear more of that in this debate . 
We have also seen some politicians in Europe who are prepared to weaken NATO and the transatlantic alliance in their aim of developing Europe as some sort of antagonist or counter-weight , rather than as an ally of the United States . 
Let me make it clear beyond any doubt , on behalf of the British Conservatives , that we stand resolutely behind NATO as the bedrock of our security and defence . 
I make no apology for repeating our belief in NATO and the value that we attach to our partnership with the United States . 
I believe that the actions of France , Germany and Belgium in fomenting division within the Alliance over the crucial issue of Turkey 's security are nothing short of deplorable . 
The coming days will be a test of the will of the international community and of the credibility of the United Nations . 
But let there be no doubt about this : the responsibility for avoiding war remains squarely with Saddam Hussein and it is up to him to choose peace . 
I very much welcome this report and I am pleased that the committee has taken the initiative to prepare before the mid-term review , so that amendments can be made at that stage . 
As we all know , when operated effectively Structural Funds play a key role in helping the regions and the people in most need , reviving deprived communities and helping to combat social exclusion . 
It stands to reason that women and gender equality are central elements of this . 
My constituency in Wales includes some of Europe 's poorest communities . 
Wales is a beneficiary of Objective I funding and has probably had a very similar experience to other areas of Europe . 
Good work has been done . 
The European Equality Partnership in Wales has developed systems to try to integrate mainstreaming and fully consider gender and other equality issues in the programming . 
Good practice is sometimes undermined by the pressure to comply with spending deadlines . 
Technical assistance is lacking for people trying to implement equality measures . 
For us in Wales , in particular , there is a worrying under-spend in the gender-specific measures . 
That is something we need to investigate . 
All this shows the importance of monitoring systems which will enable us to compare what is really on the ground in different countries . 
We now have the mid-term review , which is an opportunity to deal with the issues raised in Mrs Avilés Perea 's report , a chance to move the equality agenda forward . 
For that to happen , the training and support mechanisms need to be in place to ensure implementation as well as efficient monitoring and sanctions for non-compliance . 
Involving women and equality organisations in the evaluation is extremely important . 
Much depends on their commitment , hard work and vigilance , which the Member States would do well to try to match . 
Mr President , the thoughts and prayers of my British Conservative colleagues today are with the men and women of my country 's armed forces on whom has fallen the heavy and dangerous responsibility of disarming Saddam Hussein of his weapons of mass destruction . 
The international community has long recognised the threat that Saddam poses for the security of our world , but our institutions have sadly failed to implement its decisions and bring about Iraqi disarmament as the UN has demanded in 17 resolutions . 
I have to say that , listening to this debate , I quite wonder whether some people ever intended that these resolutions should be implemented . 
Today is not a day , however , to argue our differences over the reasons for this . 
As the Commissioner has said , there are lessons which the UN , NATO and Europe will have to learn for the future . 
That includes the practical reality of reaching a full European consensus when there clearly is division - there is even division in this debate . 
It is because our first responsibility is for the defence and security of our people and the preservation of our democratic values - the very values which defend the freedom to participate in demonstrations such as those we have seen throughout Europe in recent days - that my party has given its clear support to the British Government and helped the Prime Minister , Tony Blair , to secure a major and decisive vote of confidence in our Parliament last Tuesday evening . 
Now that the war has started , the eyes of the world have clearly moved elsewhere , but I welcome the publication of the road map to peace in the Middle East and believe it should not be treated in the cynical way in which it has been referred to in this debate today . 
If we are committed to peace in the Middle East we should all welcome that announcement . 
I also welcome the recognition of the role of the UN in post-war reconstruction in Iraq . 
I am very encouraged by what Commissioner Patten had to say today about reconstruction after what I thought was a rather different message last week . 
There is no doubt that we enjoy peace , democracy and freedom of expression because European history has told us that the last generation , including the United States led by Roosevelt , fought to preserve these freedoms . 
Failure to confront Hussein now would create dangers to those freedoms in the future . 
Mr President , I would like to congratulate Mr Caudron on his work . 
I very much welcome this initiative , which could be a real step forward in the battle against HIV/Aids , malaria and TB in the developing countries . 
As has already been said , it is a rapidly growing problem , usually affecting the poorest and most vulnerable in society who have less access to health care and education - many of whom are women . 
In fact , they make up two thirds of the world 's poor and bear the main burden of poverty . 
Therefore , the role of women as sufferers , main carers , educators and as active members of communities in the developing countries is key to finding the right solutions . 
So the focus of the opinion of the Women 's Rights and Equal Opportunities Committee was on ensuring that drugs and treatment are affordable , that people in developing countries are central to the programmes and that the products developed and used in trials are suitable for local use . 
Simple practical matters such as how to store drugs safely and how to administer or take drugs are crucial . 
That is why grass-roots groups such as women 's organisations must be fully involved in developing programmes and ensuring that training is given to health care providers in the use of products - whether in the home , the community or in institutions . 
Training , capacity-building and infrastructure must be developed to enable these clinical trials to be carried out effectively and to ensure the long-term success of this programme . 
Mr President , today we have an open market within the European Union , but that means that the market is also open to fraudsters . 
Most of the fraud against the EU actually comes from money not collected . 
The Commission has estimated that EUR 90 billion has been lost to the EU budget from cigarette smuggling alone . 
We have some measures in place to stop fraud from occurring . 
OLAF has been established , it does its job and passes on the file to the Member States - where it sits on a shelf . 
We could sanction the Court of Auditors , but the question still has to be answered : who prosecutes ? 
We could fraud-proof further but the question remains : who prosecutes ? 
The establishment of Eurojust is there , but again : who prosecutes ? 
The answer , which is factual rather than theoretical , is : almost nobody . 
Member States are not serious about tackling fraud in the EU . 
It took five years for them to ratify the Convention on the protection of financial interests . 
Prosecution against people who rip off the EU is absolutely minimal . 
The current system does not work . 
It is extremely difficult to prosecute cross-border fraud , partly because evidence collected in one Member State does not count in another Member State . 
What we have here on the table is a Green Paper . 
It is essential that the European Public Prosecutor 's powers are restricted to the financial interests of the EU budget . 
Anything beyond that opens the door to massive complications and serious constitutional implications - which is why Paragraph 4 , which calls for a judicial area to be set up , is nonsense . 
If the problem exists now , just imagine how difficult it will become following enlargement . 
If we are serious about tackling fraud , we must accept that the current system does not work and until there is an acceptable alternative , we must go along with this . 
The European Parliamentary Labour Party believes that , as MEP 's , we have a duty to protect EU taxpayers ' money . 
We believe that the piecemeal approach to tackling fraud within the EU has been insufficient , and , whilst agreeing with the establishment of Eurojust , OLAF , strengthening the Court of Auditors and fraud-proofing legislation , we do not believe that these measures will tackle the problem of prosecution of EU fraud . 
The role of the European Public Prosecutor should be restricted strictly to that of protecting EU finances . 
We do not believe in the establishment of a European judicial area . 
The role of the European Public Prosecutor should be to coordinate the prosecution , but the prosecution itself should be passed on to the Member States , who should have an obligation to prosecute . 
Despite reservations on certain details contained in the Green Paper , we believe that it is important to allow for the possibility of establishing the European Public Prosecutor before enlargement takes place , and the added complications of prosecuting fraud in ten extra countries . 
If we are serious about protecting the financial interests of the EU , we must accept that the current system is not working , and until we have an alternative on the table we must go along with this report . 
Mr President , at last the Committee on Budgetary Control has decided to recommend granting discharge to the Commission . 
Throughout this procedure we have all been aware of the well-documented flaws in the accountancy system , which were first highlighted back in 1994 . 
This has been of major concern to all the members of the committee . 
The reform of the accountancy system is essential . 
We have timetables , we have specifics about where the whole accounts reform process is going , but we must put this into a context . 
We are asking the Commission to introduce a system that not one country in the European Union has yet managed to accomplish , namely the introduction of a full accrual accounting system . 
We have to remember that context . 
We have demanded a lot of the Commission in this report , and European socialists have been leading the way in setting extremely stringent targets for the Commission to meet . 
As shown by the committee last week , nearly all the MEPs on the Committee on Budgetary Control have been responsive to the clear efforts made by the Commission to deliver our demands . 
The irony is that throughout this discharge procedure we have heard a lot of sound and fury from the right and the right-wing press , and yet all they could muster after all that was three measly votes in committee . 
Even people who represent parties such as the UK Independence Party , people such as Mr Camre and Mr Titford , who are vociferous in their criticism , could not be bothered to turn up for the vote . 
That shows that their objections are based on ideology , not on fact . 
That is something we have to bear in mind . 
The aim of most people in the Committee on Budgetary Control is to put proper controls in place . 
A couple of weeks ago we had to make a political judgement as to whether our support for the Commission would help or hinder future reform . 
We decided that postponing discharge would actually hold up the system . 
We are interested in delivery . 
It will be interesting to see how the decentralisation system works over the next year . 
But we can not admonish the Commission for wasting taxpayers ' money when we spend willy-nilly on things that are , frankly , a total waste of money . 
Every month thousands of parliamentary assistants and administrators leave Brussels to travel 400 miles to work here in Strasbourg . 
It is wholly unnecessary to use EUR 173 million each year in order to respect historical treaties . 
In the wider context , I have found that we spend over EUR 1 million on committee meetings held outside the seats of Parliament . 
We have also seen an increase in the amount of money spent on yellow weeks , that is , EUR 372 000 . 
The right wing must listen . 
They are voting against all of these points about transparency within Parliament , and frankly they are a bunch of hypocrites ! 
Mr President , on a point of order , I wondered whether Mrs Schreyer would say that it is realistic to expect the introduction of a full accrual accounting system by 2005 . 
We obviously hope that will be the case , but the World Bank took four years . 
Could the Commissioner explain how she is going to meet a very tight timetable ? 
Mr President , the agreement reached on this report in the Conciliation Committee at the end of February is indeed very good news for all pet owners , who will soon be able to travel more easily with their animals throughout the European Union . 
What has been commonly labelled the pet passport scheme will make it simpler to cross borders and at the same time ensure high safety standards and the protection of public health . 
It is worth mentioning again that the Commission brought forward this proposal as a result of the remarkable success of measures taken to control rabies in recent years . 
Due to vaccination campaigns the number of cases of rabies in cats and dogs dropped from nearly 500 in 1991 to a mere 5 in 1998 and , as the Commissioner says , it has almost been eradicated . 
This success has enabled the Member States to adopt a set of common rules on pet animal movements which is very welcome . 
Whilst there are exceptions for the so-called sensitive Member States - the UK , Sweden and Ireland for five years - in the other 12 EU countries proof of a valid rabies vaccination in the form of a passport document will be the only requirement for taking cats , dogs and ferrets between Member States as long as they also have an electronic microchip for identification , although some Member States may continue to use tattoos for an eight-year transition period . 
It is very important to be able to distinguish between commercial and non-commercial movement of animals . 
The UK , Sweden and Ireland can still use quarantine for animals coming in from countries outside the EU where rabies is endemic , but for EU countries and countries where the disease is under control they will require vaccination and a follow-up immunity test before travel . 
I would like to highlight briefly a couple of the key points that were raised during the discussion of this report . 
One is the OIE International Animal Health Code which Parliament wished to use in its entirety when drawing up the list of third countries deemed to be free of rabies . 
This is the position that Parliament has stated in earlier discussions . 
However , many countries are now moving away from use of this code and away from the strict rabies-free status ; so adopting the code could actually unnecessarily exclude some countries from this pet travel scheme . 
But , more importantly , it could actually be less effective in stopping the spread of rabies . 
We must adopt the wording used in the common position . 
Similarly , although Parliament expressed concern about the inclusion of animals younger than three months in the scheme , as they could not have been vaccinated , we have been assured that this will not present a danger to public health and can therefore agree to that for 12 of the 15 countries . 
There has also been a great deal of debate on the role of Parliament in agreeing any extension to the five-year transitional period for the UK , Sweden and Ireland . 
I am pleased that agreement was reached on this point , as it is of paramount importance that decisions relating to a report which has been adopted under the codecision procedure should themselves be subject to codecision when being amended or reviewed . 
The Commission will have sufficient time to consult Parliament and the Council following the scientific assessment of this scheme which will be carried out in 2008 . 
Similarly , comitology is now limited to implementation measures which Parliament could accept , and the delegation noted the Commission 's statement on this . 
A controversial issue earlier on was the inclusion of ferrets in the scheme . 
While many Members have expressed surprise that ferrets can be classed as pets , I can assure them that in Wales , which I represent , there are many ferret owners who will be delighted with this agreement . 
This regulation has changed considerably since the Commission first published its proposal , including several aspects relating to animal health and affecting the legal basis used , but we have the basis of a good and effective scheme and one which everyone will welcome . 
Finally , I would like to thank my colleagues in the other groups for their cooperation : the animal welfare intergroup for their support ; several other organisations which have provided information and advice ; and also the Commission and the Council for what turned out in the end to be a straightforward conciliation . 
We now have to ensure that people are aware of what the scheme means , and of how they can prepare in advance to take their pets with them when they travel . 
I look forward , on my travels back and forth , to seeing many pet owners taking advantage of these new rules which will benefit everyone . 
Mr President , 172 troops - 34 British and 138 American - gave their lives for the cause of Iraq 's freedom during the war . 
Today certainly , my colleagues and I salute what they and all the coalition forces did to ensure that Iraq could be free . 
Throughout the debates that we have had on the Iraq crisis , I have made it clear that for us war was always a last resort . 
If only the nations of the world had united in a determined way , then Saddam , in my view , could have been dealt with without the need for war . 
The second great task that can now be taken forward is progress towards a durable settlement between Israel and the Palestinians . 
The road map to peace sponsored by the Quartet offers a solid basis for a resolution of this most difficult of issues in the Middle East : the parties in the wider region , the blueprint for a lasting peace , a secure Israel whose right to exist is recognised by the Arab world , and a Palestinian state living side by side with Israel in harmony and peace . 
There is much work to be done on both of these projects , but the opportunity is there now for a real and lasting peace to be forged in this vitally important region of the world . 
As for the wider world , the crisis has created real questions about the United Nations and its ability to implement its own declared intentions . 
NATO has suffered internal divisions of a kind never before experienced . 
The European Union has demonstrated that it is incapable of speaking with a single voice , whilst some Member States have shown more interest in creating a counterweight to the United States , than in building a genuine transatlantic partnership based on common values . 
It is time for some straight talking . 
The actions of the gang of four at the Brussels summit last month clearly show the strategic error they are making in trying to divide the transatlantic alliance . 
New structures and new military headquarters in competition with the United States would fracture an alliance that has served us well in Europe . 
I am glad that the majority of European nations understand this and have had the courage to say so . 
Finally , if Europe is serious about defence and security , it needs to provide the financial resources . 
I hope that Europe has learned a lesson from this crisis . 
NATO and the transatlantic alliance must remain the bedrock of European defence . 
Mr President , I should also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work on this issue , which has enabled us to come to an agreement on this second reading . 
At a time when GMOs are the subject of intense debate , not only in Europe but throughout the world , it is vital that we can agree on at least some aspects of the regulation . 
Amongst the most important points in this report are the requirement for prior written express consent of the importing country before any movement of GMOs can take place , an obligation on the Commission to make export notifications available to the public and the requirement on Member States to prevent accidental cross-boundary movement of GMOs - the latter addressing the major debate of the moment , coexistence . 
Here we are talking about implementing the Cartegena Protocol , which covers the export of GMOs to countries outside the EU . 
The protocol , as others have said , will enter into force when ratified by 50 countries . 
I was pleased to hear the Commissioner say that 49 countries , plus the European Community , have already done so . 
As eight Member States have been awaiting adoption of this regulation , a positive vote tomorrow will lead almost directly to the Cartegena Protocol coming into force . 
This will have a significant impact , particularly on the poorest countries , allowing them the choice of whether or not to accept GMOs , the very choice that we want for people everywhere , including those people forced to depend on aid . 
Mr President , I congratulate you , President-in-Office , on the progress on enlargement that has been made during the Greek Presidency . 
The special Athens Council in April was a landmark in the history of Europe , following the collapse of the Berlin Wall , and we look forward to the ten applicant states taking their rightful place in the new Europe . 
However , if we look at the priorities set by the Greek Presidency , two of them in particular have proved to be something of a disappointment . 
First the Lisbon process . 
It is disappointing that the presidency has been unable to persuade governments to get their act together on issues which are as fundamental as this to the prosperity of people across Europe . 
As a result , many EU countries will be facing a future of economic stagnation and deflation . 
Secondly , the presidency wanted to see the new Europe as an international motor for peace and cooperation . 
Thessaloniki will mark the end of the European Convention when former president Giscard d'Estaing presents his conclusions , as we have heard during the course of this debate . 
At Laeken Heads of State and Government said that within the Union , the European institutions must be brought closer to its citizens , but if we look at the draft articles in the Convention document , we find this ambition has not been achieved . 
Indeed in many ways it heads in precisely the opposite direction . 
The Convention is proposing a European Union which , in my view , is more centralised , more bureaucratic , in many ways less democratic and certainly more federalist than is currently the case . 
I am well recognised in my country as a longstanding supporter of Britain 's committed membership of the European Union , but the document that Heads of Government are likely to see in Thessaloniki is one that changes the nature of the relationship between Member States and the European Union . 
In summary : a Constitution , incorporation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights , legal status for the Union , a President , a Foreign Minister , the collapse of the second and third pillars , a common foreign security policy , the eventual framing of an EU defence policy , the requirement that both economic policies and taxation be harmonised and the establishment of a European public prosecutor . 
The British Government has been calling all this in the UK just a tidying-up exercise and therefore not worth putting to the people in a referendum . 
In contrast the Danish Prime Minister has made it clear that he will be submitting the Constitution to a referendum , because the EU Constitution is so new and large a document that it would be right to hold a referendum on it . 
I can tell this House that 80 % of the British public agree . 
For those who cherish the concept of a United States of Europe , the blueprint set out in this Convention is based on this fundamental fact , and this has been honestly and sincerely articulated by President Prodi and many speakers in this debate today . 
When the Inter-Governmental Conference begins its work later this year , my party is determined to see that the accession states not only have a right to contribute to the discussion , but have a vote in the Council on the crucial decisions that it will take . 
The outcome of the IGC will impact on the people of Warsaw , Prague and Budapest , just as much as London , Paris and Berlin , and it is outrageous that they should in any way be excluded from having a proper and democratic role in the outcome . 
Finally I say this ; we have long been the most ardent supporters of enlargement and the right of accession states to take their place at the European top table , but our Europe is one where diversity is celebrated , not one where countries are forced into an institutional straitjacket . 
We want a Europe that is democratic and prosperous and works with the United States to defend our freedoms and confront common threats . 
The Convention takes us down a different road to a Europe where the nation state is no longer the foundation upon which the Union rests . 
Mr President , I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his report - one aspect of which has a particular significance for my constituency in Wales - and , as other Members have covered most aspects of the report , I would like to focus on that particular issue . 
The report covers animal products other than meat , including aquaculture . 
As we have had particular problems in Wales concerning the testing of cockles , this is very important for us at this time . 
The harvesting of cockles is a long-standing and much-valued industry in coastal areas of Wales , such as the Burry Inlet and the Welsh Dee . 
About 3 000 people are employed directly , mainly small businesses and self-employed people . 
However , for two years the major cockle fisheries in these areas have been closed , causing significant hardship and even bankruptcy . 
The cause of the closure was the discovery of unidentified toxins during testing , even though not a single case of illness has been reported . 
The main issue here , and the one relevant to this report , is that to date there is no standard toxicity test for bivalve safety within the EU . 
This has meant that during the period when the cockle beds have been closed in Wales , cockles from other EU countries , which have not been subject to the same tests , could be , and have been , imported into Wales and sold . 
The purpose of this report is to improve controls under the food hygiene package , and our first priority is the health of the public . 
To do that we need very clear and detailed rules , but there must be a level playing field across Europe , and in this case that means a harmonised and more effective method of testing . 
This report will take us in that direction and it is very welcome . 
Mr President , the Athens Accession Treaty signed on 16 April was a historic landmark in the history of Europe . 
Since the fall of the Berlin Wall my party has been consistent and determined in its support for the enlargement of the Union , and we unreservedly welcome the positive results of the referendums that have already taken place in many of the accession states . 
However , we are less supportive of the presidency in other respects . 
On Iraq , the damage to transatlantic relations arising from the ` gang of four ' summit , attended by Germany , France , Belgium and Luxembourg , also severely undermined NATO . 
At a time when many of our citizens in Europe are facing economic stagnation and deflation , there has sadly been little progress in advancing the Lisbon agenda of economic structural reform . 
Instead , we have seen that we again prefer to devote most of our time to institutional reform , whilst persuading ourselves that this is the sort of progress that European citizens are crying out for . 
The presidency conclusions begin by stating that the Convention was successful in bringing our Union closer to its citizens , strengthening our Union 's democratic character , enhancing our Union 's ability to act as a coherent and unified force in the international system . 
I fear that such warm , optimistic rhetoric is little more than that . 
The results of the Convention 's work have again shown the inability of a European political elite to reflect the real concerns of the people of Europe . 
We are asked to believe that what our citizens really want is an EU with a legal personality , a legally binding Charter of Fundamental Rights , the removal of the pillar structure , an extension of majority voting , an EU president and foreign minister , common asylum and immigration policies and a European public prosecutor - in short , that people want a fundamental change in the relationship between the Union and its people . 
The British Prime Minister 's now infamous view that the Convention is merely a tidying-up exercise has attracted derision from Eurosceptic and Europhile alike . 
I repeat today that the people of the United Kingdom have a right to a referendum on this constitutional treaty , just as other Member States intend to do . 
If the governments of the Union really wish to bring their citizens closer to the Union , then it is in their interests and those of their people to ensure that referendums are held in order to legitimise what is being proposed in their name . 
My party believes in a different kind of Europe : a Europe where the nation state is the fundamental building block of cooperation and intergovernmentalism is preferable to one-way integration , which I fear is being reinforced by the Convention . 
It is a different kind of Europe to the integrationist agenda , but it is no less European for that . 
I wish the Convention had chosen this route . 
I hope that the governments of the Union look afresh at the results of the Convention when the Intergovernmental Conference begins its work . 
Finally , I noted that the presidency adds that the accession countries will participate in the Intergovernmental Conference on an equal footing with current Member States . 
I hope that means that they will be given the same voting rights as Member States . 
It would be outrageous for the IGC to conclude a new constitutional structure for Europe just weeks in advance of accession and try to present this as a done deal . 
No democrat should put up with that . 
Madam President , I wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs , but in particular Mrs Scheele , whose report I followed , for her excellent work and the way she has brought about this compromise agreement on what is a very important report for all our constituents concerning human and animal health and the environment . 
The labelling of all genetically modified food and animal feed will give consumers in Europe what 93 % of them are asking for : the choice of whether or not to buy GM products . 
Meat producers , for example , will be able to avoid using GM feed for the first time through labelling . 
It is not complete choice , because of the threshold levels for authorised - and temporarily for unauthorised - GMOs if their presence is adventitious or technically unavoidable . 
These levels are too high , but they can be reviewed in the light of developments in technology . 
Under the new regulations GM food and animal feed will have to go through a strict authorisation procedure - not just a notification process - and once on the market they can be monitored for effects on the environment . 
However , as other colleagues have mentioned , of central importance are the measures which can now be taken by Member States to avoid the contamination of other products by GMOs . 
Coexistence has become a major issue since we started discussions on these reports , and conventional and organic farmers , and food producers , as well as consumers , will welcome the proposals before us today . 
I represent Wales , a country where the National Assembly tried to implement separation distances between GM and non-GM crops , only to be informed by the Commission that this action was not legally sustainable . 
I am sure that my constituents will be very pleased that action can now be taken on coexistence . 
I particularly welcome the fact that it is clear here that producers and users of GMOs must take all necessary measures to prevent contamination of other products so the burden is not on the conventional farmer . 
These new regulations will defend the fundamental principle of consumer choice and we will see people exercising that choice by not growing GM crops and by not buying GM food . 
Mr President , Mr President-in-Office , I want to begin by offering you our unqualified good wishes for a successful presidency . 
Recently the debate over the structure , the powers and the institutions of the European Union has come to dominate almost every European discussion . 
It therefore comes as a breath of fresh air to see that you have put the pursuit of the Lisbon strategy at the forefront of your policy objectives . 
We need to face up to the challenges of economic change and reform . 
At a time when Europe is facing deflation and stagnation , it is encouraging to see that you recognise the need to revive the process of major liberalisation of European economies . 
We need real action on the Lisbon strategy rather than empty rhetoric . 
The millions of unemployed throughout Europe want sustainable jobs , rather than our apparent obsession with institutional design and architecture . 
Jobs and prosperity will have a more direct and real impact on the lives of the people that we are here to represent than tinkering with EU institutions . 
Turning then to the IGC and the prospective new constitutional treaty , I urge you and your fellow Heads of State to return to the objectives that were set out in Laeken . 
You were amongst the European leaders who called for the Convention to bring the EU closer to the citizens . 
Some of us seriously question whether the outcome really achieves that . 
The European governments should have that Laeken statement firmly in their minds when they begin the negotiations in the IGC . 
Our political élites have always assumed that the only way that Europe can succeed is by regular , institutional change . 
But our enlarged Europe of 25 states should be a place where proper respect for the diversity of nation states is upheld and defended . 
Imposing a straitjacket of uniformity can only damage the true interests of unity in the EU . 
I also applaud the statement that you made in your priority objectives , in which you say your desire to complete the work of the IGC is dictated by respect for the values of democracy and transparency . 
We trust that you will keep to this in the intergovernmental negotiations that lie ahead . 
I would also like to clarify a matter I raised in Parliament with President Cox yesterday . 
The accession countries will be affected by the outcome of the IGC in the same way as the current 15 EU states . 
I note that they will participate in the IGC on an equal footing with current Member States . 
President Cox repeated that statement to me yesterday after my speech . 
But what does it really mean in practice ? 
Surely it should mean that the accession countries have a full and equal right to vote in the Council on the outcome of the IGC ? 
Perhaps you can confirm whether that is also your understanding . 
I also welcome your clear commitment to revive and reinvigorate the transatlantic relationship . 
Recent events have damaged the strong ties that exist between Europe and the USA . 
In a newspaper yesterday , you said that the West must be united . 
There can not be competition between us and America . 
Given the growing strains between America and some countries in recent times , we are looking to you to take this priority forward as a high priority . 
We must ensure that the European Union in the defence field does not pursue objectives that lead to antagonism with the institutions of the NATO Alliance . 
Mr President , Commissioner Patten has led a number of telling tributes to Mr Sergio Vieira de Mello and the UN team whose lives were taken by that appalling bombing incident . 
Today , I want to pay tribute to one of my own constituents , Mr Dewi Pritchard , a man from Bridgend in South Wales , 35 years of age , the father of two children aged six and just 12 months . 
His role , as a military policeman , was to play a part in the training of the 35 000 Iraqi police officers out of the ultimate target of 65 000 . 
He had worked for nine years for the German-owned Bosch company in South Wales and yet when the call came in June in the post-conflict situation to play his part in reconstruction he willingly went to Iraq and paid for that with his life . 
His memory is one that we should treasure as well . 
No one who has witnessed the deaths of coalition troops , the bombing of the UN headquarters building in Baghdad and last week 's attack on the mosque in Najaf , could fail to agree that security and stability are now the paramount concerns in Iraq . 
The coalition forces and the Iraqi Governing Council must have our full support in putting in place the rebuilding of Iraq and the process of transition to democracy . 
Clearly the United Nations has an important role to play in this process and it is endeavouring to do so . 
However , calls for the UN to take immediate control of the situation , or even Mr Souchet 's suggestion of a withdrawal and leaving it to the Iraqis , only play into the hands of the remnants of the old regime and some other outside forces which are clearly engaged in a campaign of destabilisation . 
European and UN responsibility should be fully engaged in supporting the process of reconstruction which is currently being taken forward by the coalition forces in Iraq , and the courageous men and women who are taking it forward on our behalf . 
Mr President , in ten days ' time yet another Intergovernmental Conference will get under way . 
The European Union seems to be in a state of permanent IGC . 
Over the last 16 years we have had the Single European Act , the Maastricht Treaty , the Amsterdam Treaty and , more recently , the Nice Treaty . 
In each case there has been an inevitable process of one-way integration , a sense that the European Union can only be successful if it acquires more and more power . 
And yet the peoples of Europe meanwhile have been increasingly registering their disillusionment with the European political process , through record low turnouts in European elections . 
There is a dilemma here for us and cause for concern . 
This IGC is leading to something quite different from past treaties . 
It will seek for the first time to create a constitution for the European Union . 
The draft constitutional Treaty increases the centralising and integrating agenda which has been the hallmark of European development in recent years . 
We should be going back to first principles . 
At Laeken , the Heads of State and Government called for better and clearer definitions of the EU 's competences , simplification of legal instruments , greater democracy , greater transparency and efficiency and for European institutions to be brought closer to the citizens . 
It is all a far cry from what the Convention has proposed ; and now we are being asked to ensure that the IGC does not undermine the Convention in any way . 
It is back to that same old message : Europe must deepen its integration or risk going backwards . 
It is time for a reality check and perhaps Sweden warned us of that . 
The European Union is in real danger of moving way ahead of what the people of Europe want . 
For those like me and my party , who believe in membership of the European Union and in a Europe of nation states cooperating closely together , this rush to integration that is represented in the Convention paper risks a backlash from the electorate . 
I fear that Europe could be facing a crisis of legitimacy . 
First we were told by the British Government that there was no need for a constitution . 
Now in Britain we are told such a constitution is essential . 
Next we are told that the IGC was a mere tidying-up exercise . 
Then Mr Blair in the UK started signalling furiously that there were redline issues for him in the IGC - on tax , on defence and social security . 
But according to reports published over the weekend he has sold out on these as well . 
My party has a simple and democratic answer to the twisting and tortured approach of the Prime Minister and his government to the IGC , and that is to give the British people a referendum . 
Let them decide whether this further leap forward towards a federal Europe is in fact what they want . 
If a referendum is good enough for the peoples of Ireland , Spain and other nations , then I believe it is good enough for the people of the United Kingdom and polls indicate that 80 % of people in the UK want it . 
The IGC will debate a fundamental shift in the power balance between nation states and the institutions of the European Union . 
I fear that railroading through a constitutional change of such magnitude at such a late stage in the enlargement process could lead to further disaffection and disillusionment amongst the people of the accession states and of the current 15 . 
Finally , we in this Parliament have a duty to represent the interests of our electors . 
By supporting the motion for a resolution in its unamended form we send a signal that the political élite knows what is best for our electors . 
That is a dangerous message in election year . 
Looking at Annex 3 of the Communication from the Commission , I am particularly concerned to see that the Prodi Commission is claiming great success in this area . 
Its commitment to achieve a broad programme of internal reform includes agreeing a new financial regulation for the management of Community funds . 
However , there is nothing new about the Eurostat crisis or the background to it , while the Court of Auditors has been unable to sign off the accounts for nine successive years 
Let us not say that Parliament is suddenly completely in the clear over this . 
If that has changed I welcome it . 
Why do I welcome it ? 
Because at this moment EU citizens regard the Commission as synonymous with negatives as regards fraud , maladministration and shoddy accounting . 
I very much regret that and take the view that the European Union 's image should be improved . 
We look to the Commission to address that issue . 
Very simply by addressing the concerns that have been raised , by not disregarding those concerns and by taking action in relation to the position of the whistleblowers who have drawn them to public attention . 
There are currently three such persons who have been suspended from their duties . 
I call on the Commissioner to take action to ensure that those people who have drawn attention to the scandals relating to EU accounting , and whose current suspension is completely misunderstood by the people of Europe , are restored to the role of clearing up the EU 's accounts . 
Mr President , I wish to begin by thanking Commissioner Verheugen for his address . 
He very helpfully reminded us that we had the Convention because of the shock of Nice . 
I recall that earlier this week , Mr President , you and I were addressing a meeting of the CBI in the United Kingdom and I made the same point then . 
This whole process is one that goes back to the Nice Treaty and the shock of the outcome of the referendum in Ireland -- I do not ask you to comment on that , Mr President . 
What we talked about at Laeken was engaging with European citizens and explaining what Europe is about to citizens who are feeling remote from Europe . 
Yet the headline in the last week was : ` Campaign launched to save Constitution ' . 
MEPs are reported to be so concerned about the activities of national governments in the IGC that they felt it necessary to take to the streets in defence of the Convention 's plans . 
We have heard in the debate today that the Convention must be defended against something wicked that is called national self-interest . 
What people in my country and the rest of Europe want is a referendum on the Constitution . 
In a Eurobarometer poll published last week of the people polled in the 15 Member States and 10 accession countries wanted a referendum . 
In the UK that number is 86 % . 
Mr Duff is amongst them : his party also wants a referendum . 
He and I might differ significantly about the implications of this Constitution , but as democrats we should be in a position to argue our case with the people and to see what the outcome of that debate should be . 
What message is being sent in my own country by the continued refusal to listen to the people whose interests we are elected to serve ? 
I should like to clarify a couple of points relating to the Convention . 
I would be grateful for clarification from the Council on the position outlined by the Maltese Prime Minster , who said recently that there had been some agreement from those countries that do not have to hold referenda that they will not allow referenda . 
That is not a democratic situation . 
I am very grateful to President Prodi , who has accepted that the Constitution amounts to a big change from the basic concept of nation states , a position confirmed by the German , Spanish and French Governments but denied by my own government . 
Finally , on the Charter of Fundamental Rights , Mr President , you and I heard a UK minister putting forward the view that there was nothing to worry about . 
I rather think that this Constitution proposes something different . 
That is why I believe that the people should have a say in it . 
Madam President , I should like to thank the Court of Auditors for its report . 
We are looking at the reform of a massive multinational administration and it is not going to be easy to turn it around overnight . 
There is a recognition in the Court 's report , however , that things are heading in the right direction and we are pleased to see that . 
There are still major problems with accountancy and we wish to see those efforts speeded up within the Commission . 
Since the publication of this report , we in the United Kingdom have been treated to screaming headlines about the fraud that goes on within the EU . 
It is the ninth time the Court of Auditors has not given the nod to the accuracy of the figures in the largest areas of expenditure . 
The issue I should like to concentrate on is the massive amount spent on invalidity pensions to institution staff . 
EUR 74 000 million are spent every year on people who are sick within the institutions . 
Of course , we have a responsibility to look after people who are sick , but the efforts made to help staff back to work are absolutely pitiful , especially those suffering psychological problems . 
50 % of staff said that there was no enquiry about their state of health or the possibility of them returning to work while on sick leave . 
In grades C and D , 62 % of people retired on invalidity pensions while 21 % retired on retirement pensions . 
I want to ask both the Court and the Court of Auditors whether they will be pressing for Member States to sign declarations of assurance -- both for the Structural Funds and in the agricultural domain -- in the forthcoming reforms . 
Until we get that we are not going to see an improvement on the whole issue of accountancy , or of the Structural Funds , or of where the responsibility lies . 
If we stand firm on this issue we will try and hold up the process within the European Parliament until the Member States start taking their responsibility . 
Are you going to be pressing for the Member States to sign declarations of assurance ? 
Mr President , firstly , has the IGC been a failure ? 
Surely it is just a reflection of current opinion at government level about the structure and implementation of a new EU Constitution . 
The lack of unanimity reflects divisions that are real within Member States , divisions which are too readily dismissed and which perhaps have been too readily dismissed in this particular debate . 
To me the question is where we go from here . 
Is it an issue on which we have a realistic prospect of seeing progress during the course of the Irish presidency ? 
Sweden said at the end of the IGC that it is a matter that could probably not come back before the Council until 2005 , and others have talked about it not coming back for at least two years . 
I say to the President-in-Office that he should dismiss much of what he has heard in the more recent speeches , not least from Mr Watson , the leader of the Liberal Group . 
Mr Watson was up to his sanctimonious best during the course of what I regarded as a number of cheap shots against the President-in-Office of the Council . 
The President-in-Office might like to know that when he was endeavouring to reach agreement in the IGC on Friday , Mr Watson had his name on the front page of the Murdoch press arguing in the United Kingdom for a referendum on the outcome of these constitutional talks . 
That was just a day after all his members had voted against a referendum here in this House . 
That inconsistency is something that we have come to recognise from Mr Watson . 
It is worth reflecting that the President of the Party of European Socialists , Mr Robin Cook , the former Foreign Secretary of the United Kingdom , has recognised what he believes the route forward should be . 
He says that we need to get closer to the citizens we were elected to serve . 
These are remarks he made on the BBC broadcasting in the United Kingdom . 
They may not be said when he comes to speak to Mr Barón Crespo 's group here . 
However , I welcome the fact that Mr Cook has endorsed the approach I have adopted in almost every debate we have held in relation to this constitutional issue . 
Mr President , Taoiseach , I should like to begin by wishing the Irish presidency success in its work over the coming six months . 
You have set out a number of important priorities for action in the period ahead , not least that of kick-starting the Lisbon agenda on economic reform and competitiveness . 
Ireland has made great economic strides in recent years , but throughout the Union there remains a reluctance to embrace genuine economic reform . 
I was pleased to note in the press this week that the Commission wishes to take forward the liberalisation of the internal market in services . 
Such issues are worth tackling in the short to medium term but , as regards the long term , EU Member States need to be more ambitious in their approach . 
However , my enthusiasm is tempered by the reality that liberalisation in areas such as medicine , legal and fiscal advice and employment agencies , whilst worthy , is essentially a distraction from the big picture of further liberalisation in the telecommunications , energy and financial services sectors . 
I urge the Taoiseach to exert his influence over the Union 's agenda in the months ahead to promote real and lasting economic reform . 
If he sets the agenda , he will have our full and enthusiastic support . 
On the question of the draft Constitution , which came to grief at Brussels last December , I would simply say this : our view has always been that the draft Constitution was moving the EU in the wrong direction . 
The aspirations of the Laeken Summit two years ago , when the Heads of Government expressed the hope that the Convention would bring the Union closer to its citizens , has singularly failed to materialise . 
I would in any case like to ask the Taoiseach , in the light of the collapse of the talks , to answer one very specific question . 
In recent correspondence I have had with Mr Peter Hain , the British Government 's main representative on the Convention , he refers to the ` Treaty that we agreed at the European Council ... ' . 
Does the presidency recognise that a treaty was ` agreed ' , or is it the case , as has been said before , that nothing is agreed until everything is agreed ? 
We all need to have urgent clarification on that . 
Mr President , I was asked earlier on today by one of my colleagues for a rebuttal of the allegations of fraud in the European Union , and so I started off with a great surge of energy , mentioning that 80 % of the EU 's budget is spent within the Member States , and most fraud occurs within the Structural Funds and agriculture . 
So I started off well , but then I suddenly had to slow up because I thought about the kinds of cases that have been in the papers recently -- the Eurostat case obviously springs to mind . 
The problem there is that there a scandal going on and it is difficult to rebut it . 
The Commission sat on the report , the General Audit Service did not open the box and look at the report and we have to ask why Mr Solbes did not keep a closer eye on his department . 
I can rebut it by saying that the procedures for stopping this kind of thing were already in place , but the departments were overworked and there was no time for the system to work through . 
It was during the early days of the reform process . 
It is important , however , that we do not continue to allow the Directors-General to take all the responsibility . 
It may be worth people taking note of the outcome of the Hutton report today : we have seen the BBC found guilty of incompetence . 
We should bear that in mind and think about what that means in this context . 
The accounting system has also , of course , come in for criticism and I could explain at this point that there are only two countries in the whole of the European Union that have implemented the kind of accrual accounting system that we want to see . 
This Parliament and the Court of Auditors , however , asked the Commission to get on with it . 
Of course , we must also look internally at the kinds of problems we have here in Parliament . 
Mr President , I want to express my admiration for what I thought was a stylish and rather teasing address from Mr Roche on whether there has really been considerable movement on the IGC issues . 
We have been reading about the Spanish and Polish Governments possibly shifting their positions , with similar reports about the German Government . 
The UK press is now saying that Mr Blair and Mr Berlusconi are writing joint letters together -- there 's friendship for you ! -- and now we understand that Mr Blair is travelling to Dublin tomorrow for talks with the Taoiseach . 
As Mr Napoletano said earlier in the debate , it is all very frustrating and unclear for those of us who are outside . 
All this underlines the importance of restating the demand for democratic legitimacy , something which was conceded by Vice-President Kinnock in the course of his address . 
I see that as coming through the process of a referendum . 
Mr Barón Crespo told us that 51 % of UK citizens want this Constitution . 
I might doubt that but , unlike his Labour allies , I am very happy to have the matter tested in a referendum . 
I can tell you , Mr President , that more than 80 % of people in my country agree . 
Mr President , I want to associate my party and our 37 members here in the European Parliament with the words of the Council communiqué expressing sympathy and solidarity with the victims of the terrorist attacks in Madrid , with their families and with the Spanish people . 
On Lisbon , I welcome many of the points in the Council statement : the need for substantial structural reform , the completion of the internal market , better regulation and sharing of best practice . 
However , current European economies remain so restrictive and inflexible that progress will be hard to achieve . 
There remains , I must say , a deafening silence on our own inability to reduce the tide of regulation , which gravely damages our competitiveness and destroys jobs . 
Good intentions , sadly , are no substitute for practical measures . 
On the Constitution , Mr Watson and Mr Duff 's party leader in the UK has joined my party in calling for a UK referendum on a Constitution . 
On Monday in the House of Commons he argued that a Constitution was needed in order to define and make clear the limits of EU power . 
The question , he said , is : does this Constitution have constitutional implications ? 
The answer he gave was an unequivocal ` yes ' . 
You have argued , Taoiseach , that Member State governments must show flexibility and compromise on all sides -- I noted your words . 
However , in that very same debate Mr Blair said that the issues of tax , social security , the UK abatement , foreign policy , defence , and criminal justice are all parts of our nationhood , and we will be insisting upon them . 
Therefore there are two further questions . 
Firstly , on asylum and immigration in that debate , Mr Blair assured the people of Britain that it was absolute rubbish to suggest that the EU would have any role in determining any policy decisions or laws in this area . 
Secondly , on the Charter of Fundamental Rights , he assured the British people that the European Court of Justice would have no jurisdiction whatsoever to enforce this Charter or the rights that were expressed within it . 
I think it is a rather different legal situation and would be grateful for your view . 
It is hardly surprising , when our Prime Minister denies that a Constitution for the EU has any constitutional implications , that people find it rather difficult to trust him . 
That is why my party says that we should trust the people and have a referendum . 
We do not believe that the Commission has accepted political responsibility for the failures that have become clear from this affair . 
- stated that the Commission had failed to draw the appropriate conclusions from the Eurostat affair , and that it had failed to accept its political responsibility either collectively or individually ; 
- made clear Parliament 's intention to continue to monitor and scrutinise future developments in the ongoing Eurostat investigations and potential legal actions , with a view to proposing further reforms . 
Since the motion of censure was originally devised , the responsible Commissioner Pedro Solbes has resigned and returned to Spanish politics . 
In these circumstances , we do not believe that it would be appropriate for the whole Commission to be dismissed at this time , but we urge the Commission to take note of the serious concerns expressed and urgently address the issues as laid out in the resolution adopted by Parliament . 
Mr President , the agreement reached on the Constitution at the June European Council was a bad one for Europe . 
My position on the Constitution -- and that of my fellow European Democrats -- is clear and well known . 
The Laeken Summit of 2001 called upon the European Convention and the IGC to ensure that the outcome of their work brought the European institutions closer to the people . 
I do not think that has happened . 
The Constitution does nothing to involve the nation states and people more closely in the decision-making processes of the Union . 
In fact , with major extensions in majority voting , the powers of the centre are greatly increasing . 
This is a view that has perhaps been endorsed by the remarks recently made by the Dutch Foreign Minister , suggesting that we need to engage in a process of self-reflection with a view to deciding whether some policy areas should not be transferred back from European to national level . 
These are interesting remarks from the government that now holds the presidency of the Union for the next six months . 
They demonstrate that I am not alone in putting forward these ideas . 
I welcome the fact that France is to have a vote on the Constitution . 
I welcome the debate initiated by Mr Stoiber on a possible referendum in Germany . 
It is right that the people have the final say in deciding their own future . 
The leader of my own party believes in a live-and-let-live Europe , in other words , one where those who wish to integrate more closely should be enabled to do so , provided that those of us who do not are not compelled to do so . 
When the referendums are held , I hope and believe that many people will take the opportunity to vote for a Europe of diversity and not uniformity , and a Europe that respects the rights of nation states . 
Mr President , I am well aware that I represent a nation that is not a member of the European Monetary Union and I represent a party which is opposed to future membership of the euro . 
I am not going to apologise for that because I believe the British economy is better off outside the eurozone , and our significantly higher growth rate compared to the average eurozone country bears this out . 
However , as my party leader , Michael Howard , noted in a recent speech in Berlin , we believe that different combinations of Member States should have the possibility of pooling their responsibilities in different areas of their own choosing . 
Thus we wish our colleagues in the eurozone well . 
I am all for the principle that governments should avoid excessive budget deficits , especially when an economy is growing strongly and unemployment is low . 
It should have been simple for us to have kept our spending within the limits required of members of the European Union , since all of us -- not just members of the euro -- are supposed to abide by these guidelines . 
When Britain exceeded the 3 % budget deficit ceiling , it escaped the censure of the Commission because it is not in the eurozone . 
The people of other European nations were not so lucky : the Dutch and the Portuguese have had to rein in their public spending in a tight effort to comply with the pact at a time when they have been hit by recession . 
However , far from being congratulated they were kicked in the teeth by the governments of France and Germany using their muscle to bend the rules and escape the fines which , if imposed , might have given them the incentive to be the team players that they sometimes urge us to be . 
It is difficult to overstate the damage this has caused . 
The euro is an ambitious project . 
All such projects require the injection of a vast amount of political capital . 
Strong currencies require credible leadership , which is lacking in this case . 
Ever since the euro was introduced , the very authors of the rules are the least prepared to abide by them . 
The new guidelines announced last week pay lip-service to the need for clear and effective rules . 
They are in essence a surrender to political might . 
Many have suggested that the eventual success of the euro will be measured in the long run by whether Britain , Sweden and Denmark decide to join . 
I am not going to look into the crystal ball , but I have to say that the most recent moves by the guardians of the currency have done nothing to encourage those of us who are cautious and wary to sign up . 
Mr President , I wish to begin with some congratulatory remarks . 
One of your key aims was successful enlargement of the European Union . 
In May this year the EU welcomed ten new Member States in the largest expansion since its creation . 
This was a historic moment in the post-Cold War history of our continent and it is only right to acknowledge your role in attaining this political milestone . 
I also wish to say that the Commission has developed some , at least , of the more liberal economic strategies that your successor has now pledged to advance . 
The Lisbon Strategy was embarked upon under your watch but , sadly , too little progress has been made and Mr Wim Kok 's report to the Council in November will probably reveal this . 
However , the positive remarks about the Commission end there . 
For the past five years the Commission has become fatally addicted to constitutional change . 
Indeed , it has reinforced the perception across Europe that institutions like the Commission are too self-serving . 
In that 2000 speech you also said that a simple benchmark of whether the EU had delivered would be a higher turnout in the 2004 European Parliamentary elections . 
One of the key reasons for your goal not being reached has been this obsession with constitutional change , which means very little to our constituents . 
At the same time -- and it saddens me to say this , particularly as Vice-President Kinnock is sitting alongside you in the Chamber -- too little progress has been made on the reform of the Commission . 
I regret to say that all this was inevitable , because over the past 12 months the Commission has been rudderless . 
I make no apology for saying that this is in large measure due to your decision to spend a significant amount of your time attacking Mr Berlusconi , the Italian Prime Minister , and constructing alliances to challenge him . 
These activities have undermined the impartiality of the office of the President of the Commission and have ensured that the Commission has come to be seen as something of a lame duck . 
All presidents are entitled to their political opinions , but I regret to say that your political interventions have been ... 
Mr President , I welcome this debate , which takes place only two weeks before the European Council discusses Wim Kok 's report on the Lisbon Agenda . 
This is the European Union 's most pressing issue . 
The health of the European economy is a matter of deep concern to millions of our citizens who remain without a job . 
It is of vital concern to future competitiveness that Europe will need to deal with the twin challenges of major demographic change and the competition that we are increasingly facing from China , India and other emerging economies . 
In July when Prime Minister Balkenende addressed Parliament , he said that Europe 's economy has ` stiff joints and makes little use of its head ' . 
This makes our competitors too quick and too smart for us . 
Anyone who looks objectively at the developments sees that Europe is losing ground , even in periods of economic recovery . 
These were wise words and I applaud the priority which the presidency is giving to the economic sclerosis that affects significant areas of this continent . 
If we do not push radical economic reform , then Europe will fail . 
This does not apply only to our current generation : it will also leave a legacy of failure for those who come after us . 
Mr Prodi claimed earlier this week that the reason for the failure of the Lisbon process is the lack of majority voting in the European Union . 
The failure lies in the lack of political will to pursue the reforms that are plainly needed . 
Some people are trying to recast Lisbon to place more emphasis on the social and environmental goals at the expense of the hard economic decisions that are required . 
It is no surprise to me that the nations of Europe that are producing economic growth are those that have pushed the necessary reforms . 
No-one denies that these reforms were painful , but they were necessary . 
It seems to me that Parliament , the Commission and the Kok Working Group all agree that real progress needs to be made . 
The question is whether Europe has the courage to move to action , rather than just continuing to express words . 
Mr President , the Cuban political system is unique in the world . 
We , as a parliament , absolutely condemn the human rights situation in the country and the lack of free speech . 
However , that is not to say that the situation is all bad . 
On a recent visit to the country we found that schools , where there is a ratio of 15 pupils to one teacher , are the envy of Europe . 
The humanitarian work of educating doctors to transform health services in developing countries is not a case of talking about solidarity with Africa , but acting on solidarity with Africa . 
Today , however , relations between the EU and Cuba are at an all-time low . 
The sanctions came in the form of an invitation to Cuban dissidents to attend Member States ' national day celebrations , alongside government representatives in Cuba . 
This action clearly infuriated the Cubans . 
They were the ones who cut off contact . 
My appeal tonight is that we should be consistent in our approach to human rights . 
By all means condemn human rights violations in Cuba , but do the same in China . 
If you are to impose these kinds of sanctions on Cuba , then impose them on China as well . 
I feel that the EU strategy relating to Cuba is to spread an incredible degree of naivety . 
Did we really think that we could shift the human rights agenda in Cuba by inviting a few dissidents to a party when 40 years of US embargo have failed ? 
We need to adopt alternative strategies to push the human rights agenda . 
The current method is not working . 
Mr White argued for the freeing of all dissidents in Cuba . 
What about Spain ? 
Do you want to free all dissidents in Spain as well ? 
I will not be lectured to by the Spanish PPE on visiting Cuba when the deputy leader of the Conservative Party , Michael Ancram , was swanning around Havana last week . 
It is time that you and Mr Tannock got over losing the elections . 
Get over it and stop imposing your stupid obsessions on the rest of the European Parliament ! 
Mr President , I would like to wish Prime Minister Juncker a positive and productive presidency and am very pleased to see a small , successful , independent country leading the European Union . 
Luxembourg is one of the six Member States that is smaller than my own country , Wales , and an example of what an independent Wales could achieve . 
The priorities paper tries to maintain the essential balance between economic , social and environmental policies . 
I would like to mention the continuing campaign against discrimination , in the hope that real progress will be made on the European Gender Institute and on the recast equality directive . 
There is no better example of the failure of policies on equality than the pay gap between men and women . 
Thirty years after legislation was passed on this issue , a report published this week by the GMB trade union in the UK shows that , in Anglesey in my constituency , full-time pay for women is as low as 59 % of that for men . 
This is a scandal which must be addressed and I hope equality issues will be given priority . 
Mr President , this debate has rightly highlighted the need actively to rebuild relationships between the USA and Europe . 
This is not only because we enjoy the most important global trading relationship , a trading volume of more than EUR 1 billion per day , but also because we share a common interest in finding solutions to major issues such as climate change , terrorism , security and peace in the Middle East . 
Since the re-election of President Bush , we have noted the many positive comments from the US Administration in support of better relations . 
Europe has seen visits last month from Secretary of State Colin Powell , today from Head of Homeland Security Tom Ridge and will see a visit tomorrow from Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist . 
I understand that President Chirac will visit Washington in the next few weeks . 
All this is welcome but these visits have almost all taken place within the context of bilateral relations rather than through visits to EU institutions . 
On the day when this Parliament has strongly supported the new EU Constitution , it is worth noting that the US still largely sees its European relations in these bilateral terms . 
I have high expectations that our new ambassador , Mr Bruton , will be able to raise the profile of the EU . 
I suggest that he be invited in future to attend debates of this nature . 
I also welcome President Bush 's intention to visit the EU institutions next month , but I await further details of how widespread the US authorities consider EU institutions to be . 
For instance , I am not aware that he has any intention to address this Parliament . 
I believe that our Parliament also bears some responsibility here . 
In 1999 we gave our full support to the creation of a transatlantic legislative dialogue , major parts of which we and the US have never implemented . 
As Mrs Mann said previously , we gave our support to the creation of a single transatlantic market by 2015 , but we have not seen many steps towards taking that forward . 
I believe we need a renewed sense of purpose to reforge the transatlantic relationship . 
I trust that we will take the very many positive ideas and words of this debate forward into practical and effective steps , which will be to the mutual advantage of both sides . 
That is just because last year was election year , the debate as such is about very much wider issues . 
It is an opportunity for Parliament to place on record , as we should , our enormous respect for the outgoing Commissioner , Mario Monti , who was the Competition Commissioner at the time of this report . 
It is inevitable that the report itself and Parliament 's response draws upon the major programme for the reorganisation of competition policy for which Mr Monti has received so much praise . 
This is a debate that had to take place with industry , and not just in relation to the modernisation of the anti-trust rules themselves . 
In addition , we have seen the reform of the Merger Regulation , reorganisation of the merger control task force and the first steps in relation to state-aid reform . 
I know our new Commissioner also shares this view in relation to the legacy of Mr Monti , because only recently she has been speaking at Bocconi University and making very similar remarks about Mr Monti 's contribution . 
It is also inevitable that we would direct our attention not just to this programme of work and the lessons to be learned from it , but also to the way in which that programme of work now affects efforts to improve Europe 's competitiveness . 
We are not trying to change the rules about competition policy for the sake of it or as a form of bureaucratic exercise . 
The purpose here is to act in the interests of consumers to increase Europe 's competitiveness and develop growth and jobs . 
That is what the operation of an effective competition policy is all about . 
I want to say a word about the new Commissioner and I hope it does not embarrass her . 
Many people have asked me my opinion about the change we will have now . 
I suppose up to four weeks ago we were all asking that , to some extent . 
I have already referred to her speech in Milan at Mario Monti 's university , and on 17 February Mrs Kroes made another speech in Paris . 
Taken together , these speeches clearly set out the progressive agenda that the European Commission intends to take forward . 
I commend the Commission for being determined to clarify the rules in relation to state-aid reform . 
In our report we refer to this as an area where we are seeking further action on the part of the Commission . 
This does not mean a situation in which the Commission just sits idly by waiting to see whether somebody is going to make a complaint about uncompetitive behaviour in some part of the economy . 
We want to ensure that the whole way in which business operates within Europe is one that encourages free and fair competition and consequently enhances the competitiveness of Europe . 
Finally , a further area for which Mr Monti deserves special praise is his work in relation to international cooperation . 
We can cooperate even when we are being competitive . 
I well remember the reaction of some people in America a few years ago to the GE-Honeywell decision that was taken by Mr Monti . 
Today I had the honour of being present to hear President Bush 's speech and afterwards seeing him shake the hand of Alex Schaub , the Director-General of Competition at the time that decision was made . 
. Mr President , I believe that the report by Mrs Auken sends a very strong message to the Commission that proper funding for the Natura 2000 network is a very high priority for this Parliament too . 
I am pleased that the main points of the opinion of the Committee on Regional Development have been taken on board in the report . 
The structural funds must be part of the funding mechanism for Natura 2000 , but there must also be a clear commitment that the money will be spent on specific , authorised objectives ; in other words , that the money earmarked and that the release of that money is conditional on national Natura 2000 financing plans being in place in the Member States . 
Mainstreaming environmental considerations into all EU policy work is the way forward . 
I welcome the integrated approach of the Commission . 
One of the most important features of Natura 2000 is that it reflects that integrated approach ; it puts people at the heart of the process and , in particular , people who live and work in our rural areas . 
As well as aiming to stop the decline in biodiversity in Europe , Natura 2000 creates and sustains jobs , supports agriculture , forestry and rural development and provides tourism and educational opportunities . 
Our main concern is that we have effective funding options to ensure that this ambitious scheme to safeguard and support Europe 's natural heritage actually succeeds in its aim . 
Mr President , today I would like to start a process of naming and shaming those Member States that fail to implement European directives . 
There are currently 83 Lisbon directives which we have passed in the European Parliament . 
Out of sixty-three that should have been implemented by now , only ten have been fully implemented . 
Today I would like to mention the Electricity Directive which should have been implemented by 1 June 2004 . 
Those countries that have not implemented the Electricity Directive are Belgium , Germany , Greece , Spain , Ireland , Latvia , Luxembourg , Poland and Portugal . 
Sweden has yet to notify the Commission of its legislation implementing the Electricity Directive . 
I would like you , Mr President , to write to those governments asking them when they intend to implement the directive . 
Madam President , I too would like to thank the rapporteur , who has had a tremendous job of work to do . 
Recent research carried out by ` Which ? ' , the UK consumer association , has shown that 98 per cent of people that it spoke to want health and nutrition claims on food to be authorised so that they can be certain that the food they buy is indeed the product described on the packaging with the qualities that are attributed to that product . 
In my Group we agree that there is a need for authorisation , not notification , because selfregulation does not work . 
We need an authorisation procedure and , as others have said , we need to maintain the nutrient profiles -- Article 4 -- not least to protect children from being the targets of misleading advertising . 
Sixteen per cent of children in the UK between the ages of two and fifteen are obese , and the problem is getting worse . 
Finally , we have to ensure better and clearer information for the public so that this important new legislation is as effective as possible . 
Mr President , it is nice to see our loony friends are in the Chamber with us today . 
Despite recent major jolts to the EU project , we still have some fairly substantial work in progress , not least the Lisbon Strategy . 
I would like , therefore , to continue my mission to name and shame Member States that have not implemented some of the Lisbon directives . 
The European Parliament has passed 83 Lisbon directives . 
The European company statute directive should have been implemented by 18 October 2004 , but the following countries have yet to notify the Commission of their legislation implementing this directive : Belgium , Estonia , Greece , Spain , France , Ireland , Italy , Latvia , Lithuania , Luxembourg , the Netherlands , Poland , Portugal and Slovenia . 
Mr President , would you write to those Member States and ask them when they intend to implement the directive ? 
This should be the case until there is a radical reduction in the amount of money that is paid to agriculture . 
Mr Blair , I listened very carefully to your presentation , in particular the emphasis on solidarity in combating poverty . 
However , the delay in the agreement on the EU budget means that my constituency , West Wales and the Valleys -- an Objective 1 area -- has lost its chance for full convergence funding after 2007 . 
I want Europe to change . 
We want a Europe where nations like Wales can play a full part in their own right . 
It is essential that we make Europe more relevant to people . 
In line with that aim and following the example of the Irish presidency , and more recently the Spanish Government , I call upon the UK presidency to request that Welsh be made an official language of the European Union . 
To translate that into Welsh myself as I have to do in this Chamber at present : 
Mr President , the European Parliament has passed 83 Lisbon directives , 63 of which should have been implemented . 
In fact , only ten have been fully implemented by all the Member States . 
I wish to continue my practice of naming and shaming Member States that fail to implement EU legislation . 
Today the issue I am concentrating on is being discussed at the G8 Summit : the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Allowance Trading Scheme Directive , which should have been implemented by the end of 2003 . 
Estonia , Italy , Hungary , Poland , Slovenia and Sweden have yet to notify the Commission of their legislation implementing this directive . 
There is no point in passing these laws if they are not implemented . 
Such lax behaviour by Member States jeopardises the Lisbon directives and economic liberalisation . 
Mr President , could you please write to these countries and ask them when they intend to initiate this law ? 
It is long overdue , but we are at last able to take action to protect children from these high concentrations of toxic substances in their toys . 
It is scandalous that children 's toys containing phthalates could weaken the immune system , cause liver damage and affect the hormone balance , especially when there are other alternatives . 
I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur , Professor Trakatellis , for his work on reaching this agreement and I echo his call to Parliament to support the compromise amendments in the vote tomorrow . 
I am pleased that we have agreed on the ban , rather than labelling for children under three years old , which would not have been effective . 
The fact that this will cover all toys that can be put into the mouth is also vital as are the Commission guidelines on exactly what this will mean and what products will be covered to ensure the highest level of protection . 
We have heard about that from the Commissioner . 
I believe that this is a real achievement , despite the fact that it has taken so long and despite the lobbying by the industry . 
I believe we have come to the right conclusion and that this legislation will protect the health of young children . 
Mr President , I should also like to thank the rapporteur for his very efficient and effective work on this report . 
However , as has been said , the Verts/ALE Group has tabled amendments that reflect our position on a number of specific issues that we needed to reiterate . 
Waste , and particularly hazardous waste , should only be transported where there is no alternative ; the legislation has to be effective and enforceable to that end . 
Waste should include all types of waste , including animal by-products , and we should be very clear as to our definition of waste ships . 
As other Members have already said , since the EU decided to phase out single hull tankers , this issue has become more important . 
We know that we do not have the capacity within the EU to treat the waste ships ourselves , but it is urgent that we stop the dismantling of European ships in Asia under terrible social and environmental conditions . 
We already have international agreements governing aspects of waste policy . 
It is very important that there be consistency between those agreements and new European legislation so that the very highest standards are adopted . 
The standards here are not humane . 
We are not talking about a few animals , but about millions of animals that are trapped every year in the European Union . 
The priority is for trapping to continue . 
So for these reasons , and for many other reasons , it is not acceptable and the Commission should produce a new proposal . 
Today I cast my vote against the report of Mr Sacconi because I believe that the amendments by Parliament have produced a proposal which would be too weak to protect our health and safety . 
This is one of the most important pieces of legislation that the Parliament has dealt with since I was elected in 1999 . 
Its purpose is to protect human health but the substantial influence of the chemical industry has resulted in a proposal full of loopholes . 
I do not believe that we can compromise on the health of future generations . 
Therefore I could not vote for it . 
Madam President , I would like to talk about human rights in Laos . 
In the middle of the last European elections , I watched a documentary about the plight of the Hmong people . 
I told myself then that I would take the first opportunity I had in this House to raise the plight of those people . 
I am glad to have this opportunity here today . 
The Hmong people are an ethnic group that has been persecuted for many years for supporting the US during the Vietnam War . 
When the Communist Party took over in 1975 , thousands of Hmong people died because they supported the US at the time . 
Many fled the country , but many others fled to the mountain jungles and are still there today , several decades on . 
The documentary I watched showed a whole village -- young children and old women and men -- crying when the camera crew arrived because they believed that at last their plight would be shown to the world . 
The Hmong people of Laos have been attacked using helicopters and ground troops . 
This is fear that women and children , in particular , should not have to put up with in the 21st century . 
I therefore urge the Commission and Council to consider very seriously what aid , if any , should go to Laos without seeing considerable improvements , in particular with regard to the rights of the Hmong people . 
Mr President , I wish to speak on the immoral behaviour of the company Irish Ferries . 
I know my colleague , Mr De Rossa , will be speaking on this issue as well . 
This week that company sacked 550 Irish and Welsh seafarers and took on Latvians at a much cheaper rate -- less than half the minimum wage . 
That is because Irish Ferries has a new flag of convenience -- the Cyprus flag -- which means that it can skirt around the minimum wage laws of Ireland . 
This is bad for Irish workers and it is also bad for Latvian workers , because they are being exploited . 
I hope that this is not the shape of things to come under the Services Directive . 
The approach adopted by Irish Ferries has been positively Victorian . 
It smuggled security men on board the ships to force the staff to accept this switchover . 
Obviously there are serious safety issues here . 
We clearly need to revisit the 1998 Manning Directive . 
I should like to ask you , Mr President , to ensure that the Council puts this on the agenda for Monday 's Transport Council meeting . 
This is something that my colleague , Mr De Rossa , is also very keen to see . 
The Biofuels Directive should have been implemented by the end of 2004 , but the following Member States have yet to notify the Commission of their legislation implementing that directive : Estonia , Greece , Italy , Cyprus , Luxembourg , the Netherlands , Portugal , Slovenia and Slovakia . 
The Lisbon Strategy is in dire straits because of the failure to implement legislation by Member States . 
Mr President , I should like to ask you to write to the Commission , on behalf of Parliament , to ask what it is doing to speed up the implementation of the Biofuels Directive and what action it is taking against Member States which fail to implement and take seriously the Lisbon Strategy . 
Mr President , there are currently 84 Lisbon directives that the European Parliament has adopted ; 63 of them should have been fully implemented by all Member States ; so far , only 12 have been fully implemented . 
According to the latest figures published by the Commission , the directive on the common rules for the internal market in natural gas should have been implemented by 1 July 2004 . 
The following countries have yet to notify the Commission of their legislation implementing that directive : Belgium , Germany , Estonia , Spain , Ireland , Latvia and Luxembourg . 
Lisbon is placed in jeopardy by such lax behaviour on the part of the Member States . 
Mr President , would you write to the Commission and ask them what they are doing to speed up legislation on the Gas Directive in particular ? 
Mr President , I welcome this report . 
This was of course is one of the top 10 priorities of the UK Presidency , essential for achieving the Lisbon goals . 
Now ICT accounts for 40 % of Europe 's productivity growth and for 25 % of the EU 's GDP growth . 
One of the key issues for me -- as it is for the Commissioner and the rapporteur -- is not just the economic goals of Lisbon but that the goals of Lisbon should embrace all . 
Social inclusion is of course a key factor . 
I know of poor single parents in Ely in Cardiff , where I was brought up , who do not have a car . 
Now if they were to shop online they would not have to pay that GBP 10 , and this would make a huge difference to many poor families . 
The demonstration of the practical advantages of ICT is important to ensure that poorer members of our society embrace new technologies . 
Finally , we have to be realistic in relation to ICT . 
The prime investment for the sector has to come from the private sector . 
The state sector can not respond quickly enough to changes in technology . 
Our responsibility is to provide a stable legislative framework for this kind of investment . 
Mr President , I welcome this resolution as a recognition that there is indeed an energy crisis in Europe . 
I can tell you that , as a MEP representing the United Kingdom -- where gas prices are three times the price of gas in the Netherlands and where factories have been warned that they may have to close for a while due to gas shortages . 
The single European energy market does not work . 
The answer is not to retract into narrow nationalism , but to cooperate and make the system work better . 
We need to develop the common European energy policy . 
Hurricane Katrina and Gazprom/Russia 's recent behaviour are two major incidents which have forced our hands on this issue . 
Since the encouraging noises that we heard in Hampton Court , I am afraid we have seen some disappointing new moves from the Member States : their continuing failure to implement current existing legislation in this field ; price-fixing in the energy market ; new protectionism and the establishment of new national champions . 
None of this bodes well for the forthcoming meeting tomorrow where we hope we do not see more back-pedalling by the Council . 
This is the first time that we in Parliament have had a chance to comment on the Green Paper . 
Our first initial reaction must be one of disappointment : there are no new targets and no concrete proposals to establish a common energy policy . 
There is no way you are going to get investment of one trillion euro without more long-term planning . 
This paper entirely ducks the issue of transport and aviation and their contribution to the energy debate . 
It needs a lot of work by Parliament . 
I hope that we will be able to cooperate in this field and that we do not need a third serious incident to make the Member States realise we have to act in this field . 
Mr President , I am sorry I was not here earlier : it was Air France 's fault . 
I would just like to mention that Air France has cancelled flights from London . 
I want to raise the issue of the 84 Lisbon directives that have been approved by Parliament . 
Seventy-six of them should have been enforced by now and fully implemented , but only 13 of those 84 Lisbon directives have been fully implemented by all Member States . 
The directive on the common regulatory framework for electronic communications should have been fully implemented by 24 July 2003 , but Belgium , Greece and Luxembourg have yet to notify the Commission of their implementation . 
The Lisbon Strategy is in jeopardy through such lax behaviour by Member States . 
-- Mr President , the revised guidelines will extend the European Union 's current gas and electricity transmission networks to the new Member States , and I welcome that . 
We have already seen what happens when the internal market does not work , when it is not fully completed , when supplies are not secured . 
Europe 's main gas supplier , Russia , has shown that it is willing and able to turn off its gas supplies to its own political advantage . 
That leaves us extremely vulnerable , and I am glad to see that at last the European Union is taking the whole issue of energy seriously . 
Gas prices around the world have soared , but there is no reason why gas prices in the United Kingdom need to be three times those of the Netherlands . 
Gordon Brown has said that the lack of liberalisation of European energy markets has cost the United Kingdom GBP 10 billion a year . 
How can United Kingdom companies be competitive in the face of that kind of inequity ? 
European Union leaders have recently backed the Green Paper suggestions on developing gas and electricity interconnections . 
That is all very well , but we should not avoid a debate on issues such as price fixing , national champions , the resurgent nationalism and Member States ' failure to implement European Union legislation . 
I think it is the general view that the report has been improved by a number of the amendments made and I want to focus quickly on some of them : the emphasis on consumers , with specific proposals adding that we support the idea of private competition and enhancing the role of the consumer liaison officer . 
We welcome the first year of implementation of the process of reform undertaken by the Commission and we are also looking forward to the completion of the Article 82 approach -- the interpretation of which is currently the subject of consultation . 
I do not , however , propose to go through all the provisions in the report in detail . 
I just want to say that , in welcoming , for instance , the sectoral inquiries that have been launched , I draw attention to the aim of the Commission and of Commissioner Kroes to tackle protectionism . 
In this context , I make no apology for highlighting something of great concern to all of us , which has arisen since this report was drawn up , and that is the vote that has recently taken place in the United States Senate to extend the process for dealing with merger cases in a way which amounts to blatant US protectionism . 
In my view , this amendment of the rules of the Committee on Foreign Investments in the United States could place new and damaging restrictions on foreign investments . 
Those are not my words , but the words of six of the leading financial services institutions in the United States . 
The Commissioner , along with her colleagues , has been working very closely with the US Government to deal with issues of regulatory cooperation . 
I have in front of me a copy of the agreement of last December . 
Item 8 of this states : ` We -- that is the US Government and the Commission -- agree to discuss any significant remaining obstacles to transatlantic investment that the other party identifies , and will consider how to address and reduce such obstacles with a view to promoting closer transatlantic economic integration ' . 
In my view , the proposals in the United States strike a blow against that proposition and I would say that it is so serious that the Commissioner should make it clear to her counterparts in the United States that if they proceed in this way then retaliatory measures in Europe may be necessary . 
Mr President , I would like to thank the two rapporteurs , Mrs Scheele and Mrs Poli Bortone , for all the work they have done on these two very important reports . 
As with the other speakers , my remarks concern the report on nutritional and health claims . 
This is an issue on which I am pleased to say Parliament has performed a great U-turn . 
This time last year this House voted by a majority to follow the industry line and deleted elements which were absolutely central to the effectiveness of this legislation . 
The purpose of the whole proposal was almost totally undermined , but now , at second reading , we have been able to reach a compromise agreement , as the rapporteur said , which reinstates the crucial points and takes us much closer to our original aim : to outlaw untrue and misleading health and nutrition claims on food that deceive consumers into thinking that those foods are good for them when they are not . 
The Verts/ALE Group has supported the system of authorising claims through an effective and efficient process . 
We have supported clear labelling , consumer involvement , banning health or nutritional claims on alcoholic drinks , as others have mentioned , and many of the other items on which we will be voting tomorrow . 
This new law will make a big difference to people 's everyday lives , because food is a very political issue . 
What can be more political than people being able to choose what food they eat ? 
People have a right to be confident that labels on food mean what they say . 
It is not just a question of honesty on the part of food companies ; it is also a question of health . 
People are much more aware nowadays of the need for a healthy , balanced diet and they are much more careful about the food they buy . 
Of course , we do not want to prevent all flooding . 
. British Conservative MEPs strongly support the objective of improving the natural environment in which we live . 
Many of the measures in the report can be supported , but we are opposed to passing new and additional powers to the European Commission and other European institutions when the same objectives can be achieved at national level . 
Importantly , we can not support the call in this report to give the European Commission tax powers at the expense of national governments and , for this reason , as well as our general opposition to handing more powers to the Commission , we abstained on the final vote . 
rapporteur . - Madam President , at the beginning of this year a harsh shiver went through the homes of many people in Western Europe as the Russian firm Gazprom turned off the supplies to Ukraine . 
The effects of that were felt throughout the European Union . 
A harsh shiver went down the spine of many politicians as we realised that in future , if we were to continue on our current trajectory , over 80 % of our gas was likely to come from outside the EU . 
There are real security-of-supply issues that need to be addressed very quickly . 
If we are to stem the tide of the effects that humans are having on the environment , we surely have to start by making radical changes in the way we use and produce energy . 
I would like to think that the report we are voting on today will be an adequate response to those challenges . 
The Commission has set out its stall on the scale of the problem . 
We hope we have responded constructively to some of the tough choices that need to be made . 
There has been no doubt that this is an opportunity for the EU to prove itself to the citizens of Europe . 
This is one of the greatest contributions that Parliament has made to this debate , putting citizens and consumers right back into the centre of the energy debate . 
If we are to take on these challenges the consumer has to be involved and we have to recognise that energy poverty is a real issue for millions of our citizens . 
Energy efficiency is surely the most cost-effective way of meeting some of the energy challenges we face , and the Commission has come up with a very comprehensive action plan on energy consumption and energy efficiency . 
It is imperative that we try to make the European Union the most energy-efficient economy in the world by 2020 . 
This is a great example of a situation where we already have reams of legislation in place and Member States are ignoring the laws that they have signed up to . 
We have to reach a stage where we cut our energy consumption by 20 % . 
Implementation on this is absolutely crucial and I would like to ask you , Commissioner , what further steps we can take . 
You suggested that we are going to initiate more infringement proceedings - but can we do more to name and shame Member States that are not implementing the laws that they have signed up to ? 
For too long , many Member States have been more concerned about getting the best deal for their national energy champions than helping or providing benefits for the consumer . 
Why is it that in the UK last year 19 % of the public switched energy companies , while in France the figure was less than 2 % ? 
Is it because all the citizens in France and in Germany are happy with their energy suppliers ? 
I suggest that it is because it is extremely difficult for many companies to access these markets because of some companies ' in-built vested interests in keeping others out . 
That is why we have to do something very serious in opening up and unbundling the energy networks . 
When you arrive in the UK on the Eurostar , the first sign you see is a huge sign which says that Électricité de France is giving power to millions of Londoners . 
I dream of the day when I can get off the train in Paris and read a sign that says : ` Centrica - still not in Russian hands - providing power to millions of Parisians ' . 
I am afraid that day is a long way off . 
Security of supply and sustainability have to go hand-in-hand . 
We have to use mechanisms such as the emissions trading scheme to drive the economy . 
Energy mix is up to Member States , but let us be sensible and acknowledge that the energy mix in one country will affect others , and that is why we need targets on cutting CO2 emissions by 30 % by 2020 . 
We are insistent on binding sectoral targets of 25 % in renewable energies . 
That means no less than a revolution in the way that many Member States produce their energy . 
We spend pitiful amounts on research and development and we have to work towards a truly common European energy policy in external affairs . 
I would like to thank the other political parties , in particular Mr Reul , Mrs Ek , Mr Turmes and Mr Seppänen for their contributions and their support in this debate . 
This would have a negative affect on farmers and rural communities in my constituency , who badly need these funds . 
The lack of funding for rural development is a problem for Wales . 
This has been caused by a combination of the UK not getting a fair share of the EU funding , the UK Government 's defence of its budget rebate and the UK Presidency 's financial perspectives deal . 
As a result of this failure by government , Ministers will look to modulation to top up this fund . 
Subsidiarity must be ensured so that the decision to apply voluntary modulation or not and at what level is taken at the appropriate level . 
In my constituency that would mean the National Assembly for Wales rather than at Member State level . 
There are wide differences in approach and distinctive rural communities across the UK and it would be totally unacceptable to have a single level . 
There must also be full and additional matching funding from central government funds . 
The Conservative Party in the European Parliament has consistently opposed ( and remains opposed ) to the entry of the United Kingdom into the euro zone , and in doing so usually abstains with regard to reports on the operation of economic and monetary union , as these are matters for those countries who are in the euro zone . 
However , we understand that the health of the economies of those countries which have opted to join the EMU is important to that of the UK and we support all measures which seek to ensure the economic stability of our major trading partners . 
We are abstaining in this instance , but wish to state our endorsement of the rapporteur 's strong commitments to sound public finances and the proper application of the Stability and Growth Pact . 
Such principles are essential to healthy economic and trading conditions and a good relationship between the UK economy and the economies of the euro zone . 
Nevertheless , we have never opposed the right of other sovereign nations to form a common monetary system . 
Our abstention reflects our belief that it is for the members of the euro zone to decide how best to conduct monetary policy in the interests of a stable currency . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this report as this legislation will pave the way for full-scale production of these cars and provide European drivers with real alternatives in the near future . 
This new law will help boost the development of these vehicles while ensuring they are reliable and safe , and measures included in this report will ensure that the maximum environmental benefits from hydrogen-powered vehicles can be achieved . 
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group . - Mr President , I was a member of the European Parliament delegation that travelled to Gaza last week to see the devastation , and the focus of Parliament 's resolution today is humanitarian action , which is desperately needed . 
This is a real humanitarian crisis , and how are we going to address that urgently ? 
We have to ensure that that aid gets through , and the key to that is the lifting of the siege and the opening of the crossing points . 
It is not that the aid is not there , but it is not being allowed through . 
We have to put pressure on the Israeli Government to end the blockade and open the crossings . 
Any assessment of the damage caused in Gaza must draw attention to the deliberate targeting to destroy the infrastructure and the economy . 
We saw schools , factories , homes and a hospital deliberately attacked . 
Once again , we have witnessed the destruction by Israel of projects funded by the European Union and , rather than take action on this , we are talking about upgrading trade relations when conditions on human rights are currently being breached under the current agreements . 
Mr Solana talked about how pursuing the same policies can bring us back to the same place . 
Well , I agree . 
In 2006 , the European Union refused to recognise the Palestinian Unity Government , which included members of Hamas , and yet we are ready to recognise a new Israeli Government , which may include members who reject a two-state solution , who do not support a Palestinian state . 
What is crucial now is that the EU must be prepared to work with and recognise an interim Palestinian national government of consensus that should emerge from the Cairo talks in the next few weeks , and we must give out clear signals of our intentions to the international community . 
We have to support the reconciliation process in Palestine as part of achieving a long-term solution , and that means ensuring that we do not repeat the mistakes of the past . 
rapporteur . - Madam President , this energy package is the culmination of years of hard work in which Parliament can be very proud of the changes that will now be put in place . 
We should , in particular , be proud of the fact that the EU 's energy consumers have now been put right at the centre of the energy debate for the first time and the issue of energy poverty has now been recognised at European level . 
The inherit conflict of interests that arises when a company owns both transmission and generation of electricity has been addressed , and the regulatory regime governing the energy markets has been strengthened . 
The Electricity Directive , for which I was rapporteur , is part of a package of five measures which seeks improvements in the way the electricity and gas markets work across the continent , to ensure that the markets are better integrated and operate in a fairer and less discriminatory way . 
Let me say how grateful I have been for the enormous cooperation from the other rapporteurs on this package , as well as from the shadows , the Commission and the Czech Presidency , for helping us to come to a conclusion on what was sometimes a very challenging debate . 
The legislation has seen a raft of new consumer protection measures set out , including ensuring that customers are able to switch suppliers within three weeks , the provision in each Member State of an independent and robust complaints system , and the right to compensation if service levels are not met . 
On the European Parliament 's initiative , the new legislation also includes special protection measures for vulnerable energy consumers , and the issue of energy poverty will now have to be taken seriously for the first time . 
I would like to ask Commissioner Piebalgs if he will now make a commitment that , in future , the energy framework of the EU , in addition to addressing security of supply , sustainability and competitiveness , will also now add a fourth leg - that of affordability - to all future energy policy proposals . 
An EU-backed report has recently concluded that up to 125 million citizens are affected by energy poverty . 
Member States now must take appropriate measures which could lead to the prevention of hundreds - if not thousands - of deaths in the poorest households across the continent . 
We will also see the end to discriminatory pricing on prepayment meters . 
The most controversial part of the package centred on whether there was a need for full ownership unbundling in the energy markets - in other words , a total separation of transmission systems from generation . 
The market structure in some Member States means that the monopoly enjoyed by transmission system operators , who also own the means of generating electricity , offers no incentive to encourage other players onto the market , thereby undermining competition . 
Parliament has now accepted a compromise that will allow ownership of both transmission and generation on condition that we see increased checks and balances to ensure the removal of the inherent conflict of interest that arises . 
Many of us reluctantly accepted the compromise because we believe that the wind is blowing in the direction of wholesale separations , and these integrated companies are likely to separate regardless of this directive . 
The Commission 's efforts in exposing the abuses of some companies is starting to pay off , with examples of companies like E.ON and RWE agreeing to sell their transmission networks following anti-trust investigations . 
We are also going to see a strengthening of national regulatory authorities . 
I would like to thank everybody for their cooperation , and I think we should be proud of what we have done for the consumers of the EU . 
rapporteur . - Madam President , I would like to thank colleagues once again for their cooperation . 
I would also like to thank Bethan Roberts and René Tammist who have been a great help in preparing this report . 
This is my swan song after 15 years in the European Parliament , and I am delighted that we have made such a significant improvement in the energy markets on behalf of the European public . 
It is far from perfect but it is definitely a step forward . 
I think that the energy crisis will become more acute in future years , so getting the right market framework in place , and creating the right kind of incentives for the right kind of investment , is crucial . 
We need an estimated EUR 1 trillion worth of investment in the markets to stop the lights from going out in future . 
But there is a huge amount more to do . 
You know that there are 12 countries in the European Union where one company dominates 70 % of the electricity market . 
It will require action on the part of national regulatory authorities and competition authorities to make sure that we do not continue in this way . 
The real challenge in future will be implementation . 
Let us not forget that there are many EU laws that already exist in the energy markets , and it is precisely because these laws were not being respected that the revision of this law needed to take place . 
Whether we need a fourth package or not will depend on the Commission ensuring implementation and good policing of these new laws by national regulatory authorities and competition authorities . 
So let us see a bit of action from the Commission , and also from the national regulatory authorities . 
This summit should focus on how we achieve a common regulatory framework in a common timescale so that we do not create an opportunity for competitive advantage by individual nations or regulatory arbitrage opportunity for speculative trading . 
If my Welsh businesses can not access funds from the US , if the banks they rely on will require so much capital that the taxpayers of the EU need to take even more risk , we will not be thanked for moving first on overly burdensome regulation . 
My plea is that a global , coordinated approach is adopted at all times and maintained to ensure the future access to capital for all our businesses in Wales , the EU and beyond . 
in writing . - In the resolution adopted by the EP , a specific chapter stresses the great importance of regions and local authorities in the consultation , information and implementation of the climate policy . 
Up to 80 % of mitigation and adaptation policies will happen at the regional and local level . 
Several regional or sub-State governments are leading the way on radical policies to fight climate change . 
As Members of the European Free Alliance representing European nations and regions , we fully support the direct involvement of sub-State bodies and regional governments in the promotion of sustainable development and the efficient response to climate change . 
In this context , the work of the Network of Regional Governments for Sustainable Development ( nrg4SD ) has to be underlined . 
This Network has already set up a partnership with the United Nations Development Programme and the United Nations Environment Programme . 
We therefore call for the explicit recognition of regional governments in the context of the Copenhagen agreement , recognising the key role they are playing in mitigation and adaptation policies . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Madam President , I , too , want to raise serious concerns about the safety and suitability of Brazilian beef exports . 
The lack of strict regulation in Brazil means exporters also have an unfair competitive advantage over European farmers . 
The extent of hypocrisy on the matter of foreign beef exportations is made even more apparent in the context of climate change discussions . 
Whilst we are told we must commit to an ambitious climate change agenda , the EU turns a blind eye to the fact that the Brazilian beef export industry is responsible for 80 % of deforestation in the Amazon rainforest . 
Before a ban in 2007 , 30 000 premises in Brazil exported beef to the EU . 
Today only 12 % of those exports are authorised , but more and more premises are approved for EU exportation daily . 
Around 100 farms per month are given that right . 
At the start of this issue , the Food and Veterinary Office reported significant problems in Brazil with the certification of farms and traceability of livestock . 
There are grave concerns about unidentified cattle in slaughterhouses . 
It is also widely held that many inspectors have strong connections with , or even own , the farms being granted authority to export beef . 
European farmers must abide by rules put in place for the safety of the consumer . 
The fact that their foreign counterparts do not work under the same regulations gives overseas exporters an unfair competitive advantage . 
The UK beef industry faces real problems from producers outside the EU , who can mass export meat at much lower prices . 
Some of the world 's largest retailers , such as Carrefour and Wal-Mart , have already banned Brazilian beef on the grounds of the deforestation the industry is responsible for . 
Each year , an area in the Amazon the size of Belgium is cleared for the lucrative beef export industry . 
It is estimated that cattle rearing is responsible for 80 % of illegal deforestation . 
It amazes me how there is one set of rules for British and European farmers and another for farmers in Brazil . 
Which agricultural industry does the EU and the Commission actually support ? 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , regarding post-2013 cohesion policy , a leaked draft budgetary document entitled ' A Reform Agenda for a Global Europe ' reveal that EU funding from 2013 onwards could change entirely to a nationally coordinated rather than regionally allocated distribution . 
The draft abandons regional and local level control in multi-level governance , overturning the shared management principle . 
Instead , a sectoral approach to the new budget is adopted rather than operating independently within current structures . 
The proposal to limit the policy to national level would lead to qualifying Member States governing redistribution . 
Not only does this mean that net contributors will lose further return funding , but those Member States expected to join the European Union under future expansion would enter membership under cohesion funding likely to remain for the forthcoming budgetary duration . 
As a result , those countries who currently shoulder a large proportion of the Union 's financial burden , like the UK , will discover they must finance an ever-increasing pool of Member States qualifying for support . 
Even fewer will have to carry even more , with a possible loss of the rebate for the UK . 
With more countries queuing up to join the EU , I am concerned Wales will see much needed support go to newer Member States . 
It is no surprise that some of Europe 's richest countries like Norway and Switzerland have given the European Union a wide berth , knowing that they would be paying to fund their poorer neighbours . 
But Wales can not afford to pay if nothing is paid back out . 
The move reinforces the European Union 's increasing ambition to become further integrated , centralised and federal , yet abandons the regional dimension of cohesion policy which underpins the European Union 's pledge to support territorial cohesion and deliver benefits to all members . 
Instead the EU , like a wolf in sheep 's clothing , is covertly abandoning cooperation and compromise in favour of consolidation . 
Whereas the people of Europe were told the Union - on the grounds that it enhanced trade links - strengthened agriculture ties and promoted equality , the machinations of an increasing bureaucratic global Europe see the focus on farming and regional development decrease in favour of an unwanted ambitious global strategy , including increased emigration to countries like the UK . 
Larger shares of the EU budget will need to be devoted to such an agenda at the expense of regions such as Wales . 
The last payments to projects under the 2007-2013 EU structural funds programmes will be made in 2015 . 
There is uncertainty over what , if any , subsequent EU funding will be available to Wales in future funding rounds . 
The implication that cohesion might disappear entirely from richer nations with no mention at all of transitional funding would further disenfranchise the people of the UK . 
The disproportionate membership bill would be better steered towards funding economic development through self-sufficiency determined by the UK itself . 
The EU budget review set to be published in the spring will likely see every government in Europe declare the necessity for increased public sector borrowing . 
It seems increasingly likely that the level of funding available to Wales will reduce substantially . 
The consequences will include reductions in programme budgets , less investment in the wider economy in Wales , and broad-reaching loss of jobs connected to programme management and project delivery . 
The likely result of the reduction in funding to Wales and the UK will have a major impact on our country as a whole which will affect the farming sector as well . 
It now must be time that the people of Wales and the UK have a referendum on its relations with the European Union so the people can decide if they want to be governed by Westminster or Brussels . 
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group . - Madam President , can I thank the High Representative , Baroness Ashton , for her statement . 
Baroness Ashton said that some progress has been made , and of course it has , but there are severe problems still . 
Trade unionists , journalists , women politicians and human rights activists have disappeared or have been killed . 
Suicide attacks continue . 
With elections due on 7 March , the Iraqi Election Commission last week , as my colleague mentioned , barred almost 500 candidates , mainly Sunni politicians , from standing . 
They are already under-represented in the Iraqi Parliament and this is certain to lead to more tension and instability . 
The EU has a responsibility to help build democracy and ensure respect for human rights , and the framework for engagement with Iraq sets out three priorities to help build basic services like health and education , to enhance the rule of law and to support the Human Rights Commission . 
The partnership and cooperation agreement will be the basis for future work , but we must demand immediate action on issues like the abolition of the death penalty , on protecting vulnerable and targeted groups and on strengthening democracy and human rights . 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Madam President , sovereign debt spreads have widened dramatically over recent months for certain euro Member States , leading to much speculation in the markets about defaults , bail-outs and even the viability of certain Member States within the euro framework . 
The EU , through the ECB , can not impose fiscal criteria on these Member States . 
Nevertheless , the effects of this crisis have repercussions for the EU and the ECB in terms of having to orchestrate a solution , international confidence in the euro model and the future smooth operation of the euro sovereign debt markets . 
We have spent a lot of time and energy in the last year investigating procedures , oversight , transparency and effective risk management of international capital market participants . 
These measures affect the secondary market in securities , but I believe there is a strong case to apply the same principles to the primary market , particularly in the unique situation of the eurozone debt-issuing members . 
Specifically in the UK , Northern Rock became insolvent as it raised money in the short-term markets to fund long-term liabilities . 
When the market questioned the business model and refused to lend , the business model de facto collapsed . 
Certain euro Member States are facing the same issues right now . 
I propose that the ECB , whilst not having any power over budgets or capital-raising , can have an input over the debt maturity profile if it felt that a Member State is over exposed through short-term market movements . 
Greece has to raise EUR 31 billion over the next few weeks . 
Portugal has to roll over existing debt equivalent to 17 % of its GDP at a time when France also has to roll over existing debt equivalent to 20 % of its GDP . 
The maturity profile of debt is left to Member States , but the cumulative effect of tapping the market simultaneously leaves the EU exposed in times of crisis , leading to difficulties in raising capital in the markets . 
In the eurozone , perhaps the ECB should have an oversight of accumulative debt issuance and advise Member States on responsible management . 
In conclusion , a simple first step would be for the EU , and specifically eurozone Member States , to have a sustainable debt maturity strategy as the absolute debt level at this time is less important than the amount of debt which is up for renewal . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , I want to appeal to Commissioner Damanaki for sensitivity to Britain in the reworking of the common fisheries policy which seeks to include recreational sea angling in the regulation and control of sea fishing . 
I thought the whole point of quotas was to prevent diminishing stocks . 
European fisheries policy has been so unsuccessful in achieving sustainability that 91 % of fisheries are on course to be classified as overfished by 2015 . 
But the problem is how waters are being fished , not by whom . 
What is sustainable fishing , however , is recreational sea angling , which is enjoyed by around a million people in the UK and which supports business thought to be worth around EUR 2 billion in tackle trade alone across the continent . 
Some 19 000 people are employed in some 1 300 businesses in England and Wales as a result of the recreational angling industry . 
Recreational sea anglers catch and remove from the sea only what they intend to eat , leaving small young fish to develop and breed , and throwing back what they do not strictly need . 
In some cases , they tag the fish first , contributing to conservation programmes . 
If the Commission gets its way , they will be forced to land everything they catch and count their quota against the national one . 
The common fisheries policy has always been prejudiced against the British fleet , which is currently permitted to fish only 7 % of the Channel cod quota and only one fifth of the quota in our own territorial waters . 
Perhaps the Commissioner will see fit to favour the needs of harmless recreational fishermen in the UK in the same way as her predecessor showed open sensitivity to the needs of his own country 's fishermen when he opposed a ban on the sale of bluefin tuna , an industry that earned EUR 100 million a year for his country , Malta . 
The CFP has already wiped out most of what ought to have been a great renewable resource . 
Recreational sea anglers account for perhaps 1 % of the total catch that remains . 
The Commission hesitates to protect a nearly endangered species , but sees fit to regulate fishing as a hobby . 
It just goes to show where the Commission 's interests lie . 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Mr President , following on from the recent turmoil in the global financial markets across the world , academics , politicians and Nobel Prize-winning economists are rightly looking into finding a way to recoup the money which has been spent saving our financial institutions . 
Financial transaction taxes , in their many different forms , are just one of many ideas on the table and we must not limit the tools available to the EU and its Member States to looking at one idea . 
We must be creative and look as widely as possible to see where we can best respond to the financial crisis and strengthening our national financial systems . 
President Obama 's concept of a levy on financial institutions could bear some merit . 
Yet this proposal is very specific and does not look at considering all other forms of financial taxes or levies . 
As the Commissioner has said , the IMF , under the instruction of the G20 , is currently doing a study into possible financial taxes , yet this resolution appears to seek answers ahead of this study . 
I do not understand the logic of trying to implement an EU solution to a global problem . 
It is nonsensical and naive to think that , if the EU were to implement a transaction tax without the support of all key global players , we would not lose out to other countries . 
My concerns are twofold with this financial transaction tax resolution as it stands . 
Firstly , we can not support a measure which seeks to give tax-raising powers to the EU . 
It is fundamental to the sovereignty of our EU Member States that they retain the right to control their own tax systems . 
It would be useful , therefore , to clarify whether this proposal is for coordinated tax-raising by individual Member States - to be retained and used at that level - or whether it really is an EU tax . 
Secondly , the taxes raised to stabilise financial systems should not , in my opinion , become an extension of an EU budget line . 
There are many EU - and Member State-led initiatives and spending programmes looking to tackle the global climate in smart ways . 
We have ambitious targets of money to be spent in developing countries . 
I would not be able to support something that actually raises taxes for other purposes . 
However , in this time of economic hardship , it is important to remember that every little bit helps . 
I am hopeful that , if we support this measure , at least one small business in my constituency in Wales will find some benefit from this exemption . 
However , if this exemption can help even a few businesses better weather these difficult economic times , then we should not stand in its way . 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Mr President , the ECR recognises that the financial services industry can not expect to escape from the crisis scot free . 
Enormous damage has been done through reckless behaviour , and the cost of sorting out the mess must be borne by those involved . 
Furthermore , new systems must be put in place to ensure that this never happens again , and that funds are available for emergency purposes to stabilise systemic failures . 
It is possible that in the context of international agreement , the time has come for some financial transaction tax . 
Whatever the doubts about the practicalities of putting such a system into place , no measure should be ruled out as long as it has the backing of the whole international community and as long as safeguards are there to ensure that it works and can not be avoided . 
This paragraph - carefully worded though it may be - suggests that this is a desired outcome . 
Secondly , the whole point of a financial transaction tax should not be to raise money for pet projects , no matter how worthy . 
Instead , it must be to ensure future financial stability and to protect against the kind of events that have caused the recent economic chaos . 
For these reasons , we have voted against this specific motion for a resolution . 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Mr President , coming from a non-eurozone Member State , I am not sure whether my opinion holds much weight with my colleagues in this debate . 
Currently , many would claim that the eurozone problem is one which should be solved by eurozone members . 
However , the euro does not sit in isolation . 
It sits in the global market and has been affected by the global financial and economic crisis just as those outside the eurozone have . 
How we manage our states ' finances during the good years entirely affects how we are able to react and recover today . 
As many have pointed out , there is a reason why Germany faces a very different government deficit to Greece . 
While they may be united by a common currency , attitudes towards saving and spending vary considerably . 
Joining a monetary union did not unite completely different cultures and traditions of fiscal policy . 
The UK perspective has a lot to say on differences in fiscal policy . 
Fundamentally , money to fund the public sector does not magically appear . 
It comes from tax receipts from the private sector . 
Germany realises this . 
Its policies in the recent past have focused upon using government spending and incentives to help stimulate the private sector . 
Hence , it is now in a strong position for recovery . 
Ultimately , the public sector has done its job in the crisis . 
It bailed out the banks and stepped up when the private sector failed . 
Now it is the turn of the private sector to replenish the coffers . 
All of those countries that have practised unsustainable economic policies for the past few years - including my own - need to realise that change is essential and inevitable . 
Updating the directive to cast responsibility for the EU activities of the predominantly US-based agencies is to be welcomed as a move to monitor their activity more closely here in Europe . 
Credit rating agencies are extremely powerful organisations and have the ability to move the markets with a change of rating . 
Their independence needs , therefore , to be ascertained and maintained at all times . 
However , any rating decisions that trigger a flow of billions of euros should not come as a surprise to the market . 
For example , credit rating agencies should publish their ongoing stress tests and scenario analyses so as to improve market transparency and minimise shocks . 
However , we must remember what it is credit rating agencies are set up to do : to assess the risk of default of an entity , be it a product or a corporation , especially a publicly listed company including financial institutions or even sovereign states . 
In the same way that we should not blame credit rating agencies for responding to legitimate information on the state of our banks , we should not use them as an excuse for the market 's reaction to the dire state of our public finances . 
Although monitoring their activity more closely is to be supported , a more critical proposal needs to be framed around a different question , namely : why have the markets , investors , corporations and sovereign states relied so heavily on credit rating agencies rather than conducting adequate due diligence and collecting information for themselves ? 
In particular , why is the credit rating market dominated by three names when there are many more available to the marketplace ? 
When we have answered these broader questions , then the way credit rating agencies are held to account will become more meaningful . 
With their great power and influence in the markets , there should also be significant responsibility . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , Schengen was a trade-off for the freedom of movement of people and goods and trusting those members involved to carry out appropriate measures to ensure safety and security on their own turf . 
Although the UK is not part of the formal Schengen acquis , we use aspects of the Schengen Information System in fighting crime . 
Yet , at the same time , the system and the Schengen acquis in general also provide the more astute criminal with a broader platform for international crime and corruption . 
After the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the SIS , the primary question must be whether these Member States are at a point where they can guarantee a level of scrutiny domestically to warrant free movement across the continent . 
There has been significant opposition to moving towards a second evolution of the Schengen Information System , in particular , the equilibrium between cost and efficiency . 
The UK operates independent stringent checks and does not participate in passport-free travel . 
Will we have to provide financial support for developing information gathering systems in those countries aspiring to Schengen , in order to mitigate the potential increase in crime related to open-border policy ? 
Schengen brought with it an increase in the possibility of trafficking in illegal goods and people across borders . 
The security of travel without border controls rests heavily upon trust in the ability of individual Member States to perform checks to appropriate standards . 
The expansion of the Schengen Information System increases the window for corruption and creates a much larger collection of information for criminals wishing to hack into the network . 
Similarly , deeper integration alongside a broadening of Member State involvement may require an expansion of measures used in the Schengen Information System , especially as we approach the advent of SIS II . 
For example , at what point will the storage of biometric data be positive ? 
In general , one in two computers have been victims to malicious infection . 
Spyware allows a third party to access the same data as the user . 
The broader the system , the more data there is to access , and the greater the number of criminals with aspirations to abuse the system . 
Member States must demonstrate exceptionally advanced security and , even with the greatest efforts and intentions , one can not rule out the possibility of a breach which , in turn , would compromise all involved . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Mr President , it has been suggested that the Commission will withdraw regional development funding to all but the most economically weak areas of the Union post-2013 by removing Regional Competitiveness and Employment Objective funding . 
Although many areas of Wales benefit under the Convergence Objective , reflecting the country 's economic shortcomings , as many as seven Welsh regions are now threatened with losing EU money . 
EU funding to Wales , currently worth GBP 280 million , could be withdrawn . 
Financial support to numerous projects created under the auspices of the Regional Competitiveness Programme could be stripped , threatening thousands of associated jobs . 
Has the Commission thought , at the very least , to draw up an impact assessment to judge the social and economic consequences of cutting funds ? 
What transitional measures are being proposed ? 
Spending on debt-ridden eurozone countries , including Greece , was pursued with little hesitation and amounts to a trillion euros over three years . 
Wales also suffers high unemployment levels and will be greatly affected by forthcoming UK Government civil service cuts . 
Another threat to Wales could be the proposed renationalisation of structural funding , which could see Britain undersold on entitlement to support . 
The UK , as a net contributor , would likely be expected to bear the heaviest fiscal burden . 
The EUR 55 billion spent on regional competitiveness and employment funding account for just 6 % of the entire EU budget . 
The UK will continue to pour increasing amounts of money into Brussels , yet the one area where some of that money is recouped - albeit very little - is the area the Commission are looking to axe . 
It is , of course , my opinion that the people of Wales would be better off if the UK left the EU . 
That way , we could save billions and be the sole dictators of where much-needed financial provision is channelled . 
in writing . - Regarding Amendment 9 : UKIP voted in favour of this amendment which merely stated that ` All parents have the right to care for their child ' . 
UKIP by no means supports the legitimacy of this directive , as it should be for elected national governments to decide welfare and social policies . 
However , the UK Government is far too cavalier in taking children into state care , so voting in favour of this recital will be a shot across their bow . 
Regarding the proposal in general : UKIP do not accept the legitimacy of this directive as it should be for elected national governments to decide welfare and social policies . 
This will also further the discrimination of women by making them even more costly to hire than they already are , especially for small businesses , which are the backbone of the UK economy . 
This directive will bring unbelievable costs to employers and the government , which we can ill afford at this time . 
UKIP is furthermore sympathetic to parents with disabled children and those choosing to adopt . 
However , the EU has no right to create such rules on maternity and can not be allowed the legitimacy to do so . 
UKIP voted against this directive to ensure that legislation is accountable through the ballot box and not through Brussels bureaucrats . 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Mr President , I would like to congratulate Mr Balz on his report . 
However , at a time when the euro is facing new crises every day and it is generally accepted that new forms of governance and new rules are required for survival , it is hard for the ECB to weigh in on outside global issues . 
Yet that could be precisely the problem . 
Until now , most of the large global players have succeeded in working together to seek solutions to the problems of the global financial crisis . 
If the ECB looks to protect the euro above all else , the Fed to protect the dollar and the Chinese the yuan , we will all lose out . 
Since its inception , the ECB has done the difficult job of balancing different cultures and methods of monetary policy . 
I hope that , even while it is under intense internal pressure , it can use its expertise in these areas to enhance cooperation beyond the EU to a global level . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Madam President , I read the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs ' report on the European Central Bank 's annual report with great interest . 
The report acknowledges that huge disparities between Member States of the eurozone contributed to the problems we are witnessing . 
The report states that ` these imbalances pose considerable difficulties for a suitable monetary policy within the eurozone ' and reiterates that ` the financial crisis in some countries within the euro area is a serious matter for the area as a whole ' , reflecting this ` dysfunction of the euro area ' . 
I strain to see the sense in calling for stronger coordination of economic policies within the euro area . 
The knee-jerk reaction has been to increase economic governance , but it is limitations of enforced commonality that have led particular Member States into financial crisis , combined with extraneous reasons as yet beyond our control . 
Perhaps the system does not allow for the necessary economic elasticity and self-determination to enable governments to deal with idiosyncratic problems effectively , such as rates of inflation . 
The report lights upon this point , noting that the crisis and subsequent bail-outs and stimulus packages ` led to far-reaching austerity measures which ... heavily constrain the capacity of governments to act ' . 
It is contrary to human nature , which logically should shine forth in a democracy , however inconvenient . 
Is the eurozone ready for Estonia in January ? 
I raise my eyebrows at the statement that ` the adoption of the currency by Estonia shows the status of the euro ' , suggesting that this will ` encourage ( other ) Member States to seek membership ' . 
Perhaps , with this being the Commission 's ultimate intention , they have put the cart before the horse . 
It has already passed . 
rapporteur . - Madam President , I would first of all like to thank all of my colleagues who have made this first reading agreement possible - in particular , of course , all of the shadow rapporteurs , the Commission and both the Spanish and Belgian Presidencies , as well as the Environment Committee and the group staff and assistants . 
We managed to reach agreement following a lot of hard but constructive work , including some very difficult compromises . 
As this market continues to grow , it has also become the fastest-growing waste stream in the EU , estimated to rise to a huge 12.3 million tonnes by 2020 . 
It is a very complex waste stream that includes several hazardous substances . 
The waste hierarchy makes prevention of waste the first priority , which means substituting hazardous substances in products which prevent recycling or pose a risk to health and the environment when undergoing waste treatment . 
The Commission estimates that the current RoHS Directive has led to a reduction of 100 000 tonnes of certain heavy metals and two groups of brominated flame retardants from going into the waste stream and potentially entering the environment . 
RoHS has set a global standard , but there was a need for more clarity , so we had a great responsibility with this recast to ensure that a clearer and more ambitious law was adopted . 
The scope has been extended to include all electrical and electronic equipment within eight years , unless it is specifically excluded . 
There will be a review for additional exclusions within three years , together with an examination of three phthalates and one brominated flame retardant identified as priority . 
Given my ambitions for this report , Members will not be surprised that I am not completely satisfied with the final outcome . 
The RoHS Directive was designed to address the specific problems of a specific waste stream and I think that we have missed an opportunity to move it forward substantially by adding further restrictions . 
However , we have kept its identity and strengthened the Commission proposal in many ways . 
On correlation tables , my group supports making this obligatory for Member States , but this is a horizontal issue that affects all European legislation and can not be resolved in this one file . 
To help find a solution , I proposed in Amendment 105 that we adopt a declaration calling on the Commission to report on the current practice of Member States in providing correlation tables and how it affects the Commission 's work instead of insisting on mandatory correlation tables . 
This will give us a much clearer picture for the future debate . 
In summary , we managed to strengthen a rather vague and unambitious proposal into a new RoHS which will deliver a higher level of protection for human health and the environment now and in the near future . 
on behalf of the EFD Group . - Madam President , the thrust of the CAP reform report largely outlines measures illustrated under option 2 . 
I imagine this is the Commission 's favoured approach . 
I have concerns about the lack of clarity and the timescale for approval . 
Will we be expected to decide the best option for the CAP before a refinement of proposals ? 
I fear heavier bureaucratic burdens for farmers , despite the report calling for a simpler , more specific support scheme including simplification of cross-compliance rules . 
I am concerned that , despite the report recognising long-term food security and growing global demand , our agricultural competitiveness will be squeezed . 
The report talks about enhancing Europe 's latent productivity potential , while respecting EU commitments in international trade . 
It observes that the share of agriculture in the food supply chain decreased , while the share of the wholesale and distribution sectors increased . 
Bilateral agreements with Mercosur , including agriculture re-importation , could undermine the capacity for European farmers to trade at a fair market price . 
The report admits that European farmers face global competition , while having to respect environmental , food safety , quality and welfare objectives . 
Yet some South American farmers exploit deforestation and are able to mass-produce and then outprice European farmers due to less stringent regulation . 
In Wales we fully appreciate the EU funds received and all my constituents appreciate the need for a stable eurozone . 
However , the differences between the way the two topics are discussed in Cardiff and in Brussels are pronounced . 
In Brussels within the European Parliament , we take the two issues and discuss them separately . 
The European Parliament 's response and that of the Council to save the euro is that we need improved economic governance , more rules for national governments and enforcement via fines and sanctions . 
When the EU itself recognises that it has not done a good enough job at enforcing its own rules and standards within the eurozone , it hardly gives citizens much incentive to give it even more money . 
During these times of strict public spending , and as we review rules on economic governance for Member States , we within the European Parliament need to respect the pressures that Member States are under and accept that all non-urgent projects of EU institutions should be deferred to allow the setting of an EU budget that reflects our troubled economic times . 
rapporteur . - Mr President , I have difficulty explaining to those uninitiated in financial jargon precisely what my report on ` dark pools ' refers to . 
The report formally refers to the trading of financial instruments , including dark pools , which are financial transactions and shares conducted without pre-trade transparency , otherwise referred to as non-displayed trades . 
The report , more broadly , is an assessment of the implementation of the Markets in the Financial Instruments Directive ( MiFID ) of 2007 with respect to equities and seeks to address structural issues currently apparent in the equities markets . 
Given the timing of this own-initiative report and its culmination in a plenary vote this week , I also believe that the European Parliament has added significantly to the Commission 's recently released consultation on the MiFID II review ( MiFID II ) , which takes into account many of the issues raised in deliberations in the committee . 
The European Parliament , through this report , has asked for a number of investigations into the different trading venues that are currently regulated under MiFID and seeks a closer analysis to ensure that venues providing equivalent services are regulated to an equivalent level . 
I believe that the Commission , in their consultation document , may have gone a step further in widening its definition of organised trading facilities to include all venues that bring together buyers and sellers . 
The new level of scrutiny being suggested for operators of dark pools should be welcomed by investors as , while they currently provide protection from the wider market , they at least have the potential for abuse . 
Allowing regulators full access to business models should ensure that they can continue as a venue for the discretionary crossing of client orders without allowing them to expand to proportions that will affect price discovery or to provide a cover for market abuse . 
As well as this , in terms of MiFID waivers , the European Parliament and the Commission agree that these need to be redefined and their implementation needs to be standardised across the EU . 
The possibility currently to arbitrage across EU Member States to find the best interpretation of the same rule should no longer be a possibility . 
During the compilation of this report and its amendment , it was clear that the biggest deficit in MiFID implementation has been the lack of a market version of a European consolidated tape . 
Investors in the US can not understand how we in the EU operate without such a tool . 
There has been general industry acceptance , particularly among investor groups , of its necessity but , for the three years since MiFID implementation , the market participants have failed to come together to provide a European consolidated tape . 
Like the Commission , the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is reticent to go beyond mandating the approved publication arrangements , but if a market solution is not found , then legislation should be supported . 
The micro-structural issues currently affecting the equity markets have been a topic of heated debate in committee . 
There has been agreement that practices like flash orders , spoofing and pinging are unfair or even abusive . 
However , the committee found it much harder to come to agreement on the role of certain market participants , in particular , the benefits or not of high-frequency trading strategies . 
This fundamental function of the markets must be kept centre stage in all of our minds as we go through the legislative process of MiFID II . 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Mr President , firstly , I would like to congratulate my colleague , Derk Jan Eppink , on his comprehensive and well negotiated report , covering so many topics . 
Fundamentally , competition policy should be at the heart of the European single market and solid principles of competition should be built into all EU legislation . 
Competition should create a stronger marketplace for EU citizens and allow the EU to be more competitive on a global basis . 
In the latest wave of financial services legislation , there is a danger that this principle is being lost . 
We must use every opportunity to create more competition in markets dominated by large market participants and create a more vibrant marketplace . 
In the derivatives legislation currently being negotiated , we can ensure that we do not create or reinforce monopolies by supporting open access to CCPs and the like , and by ensuring the availability of important data streams to all players . 
In the upcoming review of MiFID , we must remember its original purpose of opening up Europe 's equity markets to competition and , after its expansion to include new asset classes , we must ensure that the competitive principles are upheld , since a combination of these has actually significantly driven down trading fees for investors in the equities over the last three years . 
When we consider reforms for auditors , credit rating agencies and other financial services providers , we can consider where the barriers to market entry lie , and work to break them down . 
I believe that standing up for competition in key industries is the way that we will generate the true growth potential of the EU and reinvigorate our economies in this ever-changing world . 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Mr President , Parliament has spent many hours in this Chamber discussing how to make the European Supervisory Authorities responsible for our financial services into the most transparent and accountable of organisations . 
The result has been to establish ESAs , which are fully scrutinised by this Parliament . 
However , in this new age of accountability after the financial crisis , and in the light of the changes brought about by the Lisbon Treaty , we need to establish comparable levels of oversight and scrutiny of existing EU institutions , including the EIB . 
Given how central the role of the EIB has become in financing EU Member States ' strategies and EU overseas activity , it is now time to improve the level of accountability of its activities to this Parliament . 
When leverage or risk is employed , we should be sanctioning the risk limits , as ultimately any default means that it is the taxpayer who will pay again . 
It is time for this Parliament to seek a closer role in scrutinising the activities of the EIB , especially as the Bank 's role increases in developing new financial instruments . 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Mr President , the Small Business Act is precisely what we , as politicians and legislators , should be focusing on as we look for ways of fostering new growth and re-energising our economies . 
SMEs make up more than 98 % of the businesses in my rural constituency of Wales . 
As public sector jobs in the UK as a whole are becoming less certain , and more of my constituents are , I hope , going to be either setting up or working for small businesses , I fully support and endorse the ambitious targets for reducing the administrative burden on SMEs , and goals such as the SME test for all legislation . 
Coupled with the ` one in , one out ' policy for regulation that my own government is operating , these measures should begin to achieve our objective . 
But now is the time to be bold , to be more ambitious and to achieve more . 
I have seen so much creativity in Wales , as it develops into a hub of activity for new businesses in the highly profitable global gaming world and a centre for cultural excellence with regard to film and programme production , yet I find myself asking questions about how to foster and encourage this development . 
Big projects like the European patent and the Digital Agenda need to deliver for these small businesses , providing jobs and a future for people in Wales and the whole of the EU . 
on behalf of the ECR Group . - Madam President , in today 's uncertain economic climate , it is more important than ever that the global institutions set up to ensure financial and economic stability , which many countries around the world are dependent upon , are not used to make symbolic political statements . 
The IMF is not a symbol but a working institution that needs someone at the head of it who has a strong understanding of the financial markets , the necessary skills gained from managing a large economy and the ability to communicate tough decisions to the general public . 
The strength of Christine Lagarde 's candidacy is not that she is a European , but that she is a hugely competent individual who has shown remarkable leadership qualities throughout the financial crisis . 
We must not get caught up in the prism of today 's eurozone crisis but look to what problems the IMF may face in the future . 
I believe that Ms Lagarde has the necessary skills and track record to lead the IMF during this period of economic turbulence and to steer a path of reform at the IMF to ensure its continued relevance for generations to come . 
Turning to the matter of eurozone representation on international bodies , as financial markets do not respect national boundaries , it is hugely important that global institutions work effectively to coordinate national policy . 
While I am in favour of more coordination , efficiency and the linking up of policies to avoid regulatory gaps , I believe that the EU must not lose its diverse set of voices in international institutions . 
The crisis has shown the huge differences between the economies of the EU even within the eurozone , let alone the differences between non-eurozone countries as well . 
All of our countries have been affected in different ways in the current crisis and we have different experiences . 
A single voice is not as strong as a multitude of voices singing in harmony . 
in writing . - I voted against this amendment as it is imperative that the Commission is not permitted to establish revenue-raising capabilities , even via an indirect charge , particularly without the unanimous assent of the Council . 
In the UK , we do not currently subscribe to the Eurovignette scheme . 
I do not wish to see UK citizens in any way contributing to any form of EU tax . 
in writing . - I voted against the Schengen acquis being extended to encompass Bulgaria and Romania simply because I do not think provisions have been made to make sure they adjoin the passport-free area safely and effectively . 
Corruption and organised crime are still rife in these countries which are also portals for illegal immigration . 
Sex trafficking , child prostitution , trafficking of children and managed criminal gangs would all potentially flourish under open border conditions and not enough has been done to curb these crimes in these Member States . 
in writing . - I voted against the trade relationship between the EU and Canada as I feel any BIT could undermine the Commonwealth negotiation between UK and Canada . 
While I see no reason why the EU and Canada can not trade freely , prior legislation has demonstrated the EU ambition is predisposed to usurp rather than parallel extant trade relationships between the UK and third countries . 
in writing . - I voted against the potential adoption of EU harmonisation of credit rating agencies as the standards may vary , and necessarily so , between Member States . 
Without one single common currency , and in view of the volatility of markets , particularly in the failing eurozone economies , the UK faces the possibility of being tangled in a mire of harmonised credit ratings which would have to encompass all economic circumstances across the Union and could expose UK business and industry to hazardous ventures supported by EU-wide credit ratings . 
It is up to independent economies in independent Member States to determine their conditions and limitations concerning credit rating . 
in writing . - I voted against the application of an external dimension of social policy , promoting labour and social standards and European corporate social responsibility . 
This is because , in my opinion , the EU should refrain from imposing social prerogatives on third countries , however correct or beneficial they may deem them to be . 
Whilst I accept the importance of fostering humane methods of treating a workforce , social policy in the EU has already wreaked havoc on a number of UK institutions and should not be extended . 
A degree of flexibility and freedom is needed when dealing with social policy , as one-size-fits-all policy making can be counterproductive when applied at domestic level . 
For this reason , the EU should not be seeking to acquire competence over social policy at all . 
in writing . - I voted against the measure for Cooperation in vocational education and training to support the Europe 2020 strategy as I am fearful of any organisation that divides opinion having access and influence over minds . 
in writing . - I voted against the introduction of EU contract law as I do not believe Brussels should be making legislation where national legislation already exists . 
By introducing EU contract law and making it optional for businesses to choose domestic or European legislation , it confuses the system and will create legislative overlaps that may result in expensive tribunals . 
It is also likely that EU contract law will favour EU social and employment policy , such as the Working Time Directive , which has both proven highly unpopular and caused disruption in the UK for a range of essential industries and services . 
It is also highly likely that legislation that , for the time being , carries a discretional opt-in will later be made obligatory by the EU . 
in writing . - I voted against the provision of external aid to South Sudan of EUR 200 million in development cooperation in order to assist South Sudan to cope with the numerous humanitarian and socio-economic challenges in a context of reduced governance capacity and political fragility . 
As the EU is an undemocratic institution itself , and one that I strongly believe should not have a foreign policy agenda , I can not endorse any third country activity by it . 
The UK is one of the world 's largest donors of foreign aid . 
It is essential that foreign aid and foreign policy remain the remit of individual Member States and is not dictated at EU level , even if the recipient is in need and appropriate . 
In allowing the EU to forge a foreign policy agenda , there will come a point when we have a situation involving a third country that divides Member States and is not the unanimous wish of the Union as a whole . 
Such activity at EU level paves the way for increased competence with regard to external action , which is something I strongly disagree with . 
in writing . - I voted against the motion for a resolution on misleading business directories as the UK operates its own misleading marketing regulations via the Office of Fair Trading , which controls the regulation of open and honest trade and contracts within the UK . 
In the UK , the Chambers of Commerce and UK Trade and Investments offer access to secure business directories and networking opportunities through programmes such as the Overseas Market Introduction Service , Passport to Export and even the European Enterprise Network . 
It is paramount that these directories are given prominence in the UK market and are not expunged by allowing EU companies to flood the British market under the aegis of EU trade legislation . 
Mr President , I should like to thank Mrs Mouskouri for that very comprehensive indication of the way the programme has progressed since the last reading . 
She speaks for all of us in the committee when she says how disappointed we are with the results . 
Ariane is a support programme in the field of books and reading . 
I think , therefore , that we should make it very clear in the title that it is a support programme in the fields of books and reading , primarily through translation . 
The programme has taken a long time to come back to the European Parliament for second reading , but I am afraid there are still a few crucial points on which the European Parliament is at odds with the Council . 
We are back to the old problem of comitology . 
You can imagine the bureaucracy involved in this . 
At a time when the people of Europe are crying out for less bureaucracy and more democracy this seems to be an act of deliberate provocation . 
The European Union , through this programme , is proving that it has no intention of creating a Euromonoculture . 
Mr President , with new socialist governments coming in across Europe , the emphasis on a people 's Europe is very important . 
No programme demonstrates a people 's Europe more than SOCRATES - except perhaps the voluntary service which we have just been discussing . 
Thousands of students and pupils across the European Union have the possibility of participating in exchange programmes and getting to know their fellow citizens . 
That is why , two and half years ago , we were not happy with the amount of money proposed by the Council and , during the conciliation process , we negotiated a return at this point to look again at the finances . 
The Committee on Culture , Youth , Education and the Media feels very strongly that in order to do justice to the programme , a substantial increase in funding is necesssary . 
In addition , there is increased demand under the various projects because of partnerships developed as a result of the European Year of Lifelong Learning , which was very successful across the European Union . 
Nor should we forget the recommendations of the final report of the taskforce on educational software and multimedia . 
All that money has to be found now out of the SOCRATES programme . 
What happens if we do not find the funding ? 
There will certainly be no problem spending the money . 
It will certainly remain at the top of our agenda . 
Mr President , thank you for coming to listen to us debate Socrates again . 
I hope this will be the final time we are congregated to discuss this issue because we hope we will have a result following conciliation . 
But it is important that we appreciate the importance of the Socrates programme in its attempts to cement the links between the young people of Europe . 
It is a programme that has served to combat racism and xenophobia . 
But if it is to continue its good work , it needs to be properly funded . 
If we take the example of the Erasmus student grants , the maximum that people are allowed to get is around ECU 5 , 000 . 
But it is a vital way of ensuring that links between the people of Europe continue . 
Parliament has consistently shown its commitment to this programme by supporting a ECU 100 million increase in its funding over the next two years of the programme . 
The Commission has come up with ECU 50 million . 
We understand that you have collegiate responsibilities . 
Of course we then have the big battle with the Council , which has come up with the paltry sum of ECU 25 million . 
It is important that the Council puts its money where its mouth is with this vital programme . 
It is important that our children are our future . 
We understand this , but it is important that our rhetoric is backed up by our commitment and resources . 
The programme is also being extended to the ten associated countries of central and eastern Europe . 
The budgetary effects of this expansion have to be considered . 
We originally ordered a set meal for our family of 12 people . 
We then invited 12 more people to the table but I am afraid we did not order any extra food . 
What we need is more resources for the caterer to ensure that none of our family or our guests leaves our educational table unfed or hungry . 
Our citizens have an educational and a cultural appetite . 
We must try to make sure those appetites are satisfied . 
Mr President , the European Voluntary Service is a part of the process of integrating young people into the bigger process of integrating Europe . 
It is critical to involve young people because they will be dictating the success of the EU in future years . 
Whilst on the face of it exchanging young people for a period of up to a year to undertake voluntary work may seem simple enough , there are major practical difficulties to overcome , as was highlighted during the pilot programme . 
Identifying projects and matching them with volunteers is a major task in itself . 
It is critical to ensure support facilities should anything go wrong whilst the young person is miles away from home . 
Preparing the volunteers linguistically , psychologically and socially , ensuring that they are not exploited , and that they are not taking paid jobs away from local people - all these problems need to be smoothed out . 
But at the end of the process the volunteers will have gained a rich experience . 
They will perhaps be more fluent in another European language , they will have encountered a new culture and created new contacts . 
They will have changed perceptions when they return home , and hopefully will share their new intercultural experience with others . 
Most importantly , the process will give volunteers more confidence and experience to find a job on their return and go some way towards tackling the disaster of youth unemployment . 
But we have further problems to overcome and I want to concentrate on the issue of finance . 
In order for the programme to be a success we need to ensure a critical mass of participants . 
This will provide economies of scale in administrative terms and will ensure greater participation , which is why Parliament will be holding out for ECU 80 million for this project . 
The European Voluntary Service has not been well advertised as yet , and perhaps at this stage that is not a bad thing : the last thing we want to do to the youth of Europe is to raise their expectations and then dash them due to a lack of resources . 
The Committee on Culture will therefore be fighting for more resources during conciliation so as to meet the growing demand for this excellent programme . 
Finally , can I thank and congratulate Mrs Fontaine and Mrs Cresson on their continued enthusiasm for this programme . 
Mr President , I wish to congratulate Mr Pex for personally pushing this item onto the agenda of the House . 
There is a massive amount of work to do , and it is not surprising on the basis of the way some of the offices of the Commission work within the Member States . 
I want to talk specifically about the disaster of the Cardiff Office of the Commission in Wales . 
For years , this building has been proudly standing there . 
How could the Commission accept such inactivity ? 
It has cost thousands of pounds of taxpayers ' money to maintain such a building , a silent building , which has told the Welsh people nothing about the EU . 
It is not only that : the office has had the cheek to pass on information requests to the Commission to Members ' offices . 
Last Thursday I found out what the office is doing for Europe Day : nothing , absolutely nothing ! 
What I want to know is this : how typical is this of other offices within the Member States ? 
By the time that replacement is there the opportunity to ride on the back of the British Presidency will have been lost and the Cardiff Summit will be over . 
Mr Pex 's report will make sure that this situation never arises again . 
DG X is changing and it is improving , and there are some great examples of direct communication , especially using the Internet . 
I just want to put it into perspective : the EU spent 10 % of what Pepsi Cola spent on telling us about the difference between changing its coke cans from red to blue - so we must keep it in perspective . 
Mr President , I would like to speak a little about the European Voluntary Service . 
It has taken a long time but at last we have reached a conclusion . 
I hope that this will now be a programme which will break down the barriers among young people across the continent , giving an opportunity to help foster European integration and gain some valuable experience . 
The whole point of conciliation is to look for an agreement . 
The very fact that we have reached this point means that both sides have had to compromise . 
We are still unhappy about the resources available for this programme because funding will in effect be cut in future years . 
However , we believe it is a programme worth keeping . 
Our only other option was to stop the whole initiative . 
So , I should like to apologize to all the young people who might have participated in the programme had we been granted more money . 
At least we have something to show for all the hard work that has been put into the pilot actions . 
I would like to thank Mrs Fontaine and everyone else who has been involved in this initiative . 
We will be monitoring the implementation of this programme very carefully . 
Congratulations to Mrs Fontaine for getting us through a very difficult time . 
I hope we will be able to build on this in future . 
Mr President , this is the first time that these three programmes have been bunched together in this way , creating a Europe of knowledge . 
Its importance I hope is that it will provide a degree of flexibility between the Youth for Europe , Socrates and Leonardo programmes . 
One of the problems we had in the past was a lack of flexibility . 
We have tried to add to the possibility of fluidity between the programmes by creating the Connect line within the budget so we should be able to create better links . 
These are three of the most successful programmes within the European Union but it is important for us to analyse who they have been successful for , who have been the participants . 
The Union has helped thousands of young people to gain experience in studying abroad . 
The most important amendment to the Socrates report is that which emphasises the need to select students on the basis of the financial needs of applicants as well as merit . 
We do not just want rich students to have access to this programme . 
That is not to say that other people can not participate . 
We want up to 10 % of EU students to participate and they can gain the prestige of being a part of this programme . 
But , the money should be targeted at those who need it . 
That is the important point . 
ECU 2 billion is what we are going to fight for and the fight will commence now . 
Mr President , you told us that you take your responsibility seriously as the President of the Commission and we want to take our responsibility seriously as a parliament . 
How can we be assured that you are not just kicking the ball into touch here ? 
Will it be running during this Commission 's ten years and , if so , by when ? 
Mr President , I think the Socialist Group position is extremely clear and that is why it has been given very forthrightly this morning . 
Perhaps the most serious charge of all against the Commission is the lack of democratic accountability in that Parliament has been hampered in its attempts to gain access to information which would point to or dispel allegations of fraud . 
The reluctance with which the Commission has forwarded documents gives cause for concern and the attempts to conceal , sometimes admittedly with reason , the names of officials being investigated has descended into farce . 
The problems encountered in the execution of the MED and ECHO programmes need major structural answers to ensure systems are in place to avoid a similar situation arising . 
There can be no question that the implementation of the external policies has had a negative effect on the EU 's reputation . 
Nevertheless , since the postponement of the discharge in March , improvements are evident in some fields including the transit system and the SME sector . 
For the European public , fraud is a serious issue . 
We need to tackle it seriously or the whole boat will go down because of a few wreckers who are out to destroy the European voyage . 
The pressure will in future increase , not decrease , to keep the accounts clean and transparent . 
With the firm note of warning in the Amsterdam Treaty , we must heed the Court of Auditors ' view on the global assurance of accounts . 
This will be a new formal departure in future . 
Lessons must be learned , in particular , as Mr Elles has highlighted , in the field of staff appointments . 
But I will be voting along with my political group in accordance with the committee 's position to grant discharge . 
I believe that not granting discharge should be linked to rejection of the Commission as whole . 
That is what would happen in the business community - the company would be closed . 
The Commission has moved a long way since March . 
Mr Liikanen , in particular , has been tireless in his efforts to clean up the act and , with the introduction of the single currency on the horizon and the need for an agreement on Agenda 2000 , this is not the time to create turmoil and havoc in the European Union . 
Mr President , I , along with my Socialist colleagues very much welcome this report which underlines the work that we have done in the Budgetary Control Committee and really is built upon that . 
There are several very radical recommendations , not least the one that establishes the post of the European public prosecutor . 
Time and again many Eurosceptics have used fraud within the European Union institutions as a battering ram to beat us with . 
Of course any degree of maladministration and fraud must be weeded out . 
But this makes clear that 80 % of the problem lies within the Member States themselves . 
The recommendation to establish a European public prosecutor , as proposed , would mean that there would be a mechanism to present criminal cases relating to EU fraud throughout the Union but it would not impinge on the jurisdiction of national courts . 
A series of shortcomings within the institutions have been identified in this report and recommendations are made here for correcting the problems . 
We look forward to developing the action programme for reform with the Commissioner responsible and although we have not had time to look at it in detail , I believe it would be fair to ask the Commissioner for a clear discussion and justification on why steps are not taken if some recommendations are left out . 
I am sure we will not agree with every single detail in this report but that would be a useful exercise nevertheless . 
The whole question of outside bodies doing work for the Commission is an area that needs clear attention . 
Whose responsibilities are the bureaus for technical assistance ? 
Can we tighten-up the contracts granted to these bodies ? 
How can we simplify procedures and make staff within the Commission more knowledgeable about tendering processes ? 
The proposals outlined by Commissioner Kinnock in his hearing , in particular in the field of training , need more detailed response . 
We look forward to hearing more of his ideas over the next few months . 
I hope people will take time to read the report which clearly distinguishes between fraud and irregularity . 
The report states that of all the thousands of transactions which take place within the European Union institutions there are only 30 investigations involving Commission officials in fraud . 
Of course that is 30 too many , but the main cause of concern are the many examples of irregularities . 
This is an administrative problem , not a criminal issue . 
But measures are needed to tighten up the slack administrative practices , to rewrite poor regulations , to cut down complicated payment mechanisms , dispense with excessive exceptions and derogations which lead to the far too many irregularities and errors . 
It is these irregularities that give rise to alarmist headlines when we are presented with the Court of Auditors ' report on an annual basis . 
The report also correctly referred to the regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the European Community and points out that only three Member States have ratified the regulation . 
I am sure this report will give food for thought to those Member States that have not signed . 
It will be interesting to note how they respond in particular to the recommendation on the creation in each Member State of a national prosecution office for European offences . 
It is indeed appropriate that this report is published this week when we are about to decide on the fate of a new Commission . 
It is interesting in particular , in the light of recent events , that the Committee of Experts recommends that legal powers are given to allow the Commission President to sack individual Commissioners . 
This week we also received from the Commission a request on the supplementary and amending budget for money to establish the staff necessary to operate the new fraud office , OLAF . 
We would also concur with the report that specialised expertise is needed for these posts , and the need to make more effective use of information technology in intelligence gathering . 
The report itself should also be a lesson to us all within the European Union institutions . 
It has been clearly written , is really easily accessible and avoids jargon wherever possible . 
It is really a model on how to write European legislation . 
Again , we will have further discussions on that in the committee . 
We are at the dawn of a new era within the European Union institutions . 
In partnership we can rebuild confidence in the institutions , not only for the people who work within them but most of all , for the people they serve . 
Mr President , you have a major task ahead of you and nobody is more aware of that than the Budget Control Committee . 
The number one priority must be the reform agenda . 
If you fail to deliver on this then we will all judge you very harshly and will in fact all suffer as a result . 
But as Mr Kinnock said yesterday , you will be judged on your deeds and not on your words . 
On behalf of the Socialists in the Budget Control Committee , I would like to comment specifically on Mr Kinnock ' s presentation at the hearing . 
Mr Kinnock ' s record within the Commission is second to none and we accept fully his commitment to accept collective responsibility in terms of past problems whilst agreeing that he bears no individual guilt . 
Performance and management of the transport directorate has been exemplary and we believe that with his experience of modernising the Labour Party in the UK , he has the relevant qualification to undertake this work . 
If you can turn the Labour Party around from the lamentable state it was in the 1980s to getting us to a position in the 1990s where we swept everything away , then you must really be able to perform miracles . 
We note the Commission ' s commitment to the reform agenda and , in particular , Mr Prodi , your commitment to consult the European Parliament on the reform programme . 
The idea of giving legal effect to the codes of conduct once established is also something we welcome and the overhaul of the Commission ' s management and control systems . 
We expect active consultation with Parliament at all times and we have no doubts that the Commissioner will fulfil his commitment on that score . 
This is the beginning of the reform process and we now look forward to some action . 
Mr President , I would like to thank the Budget Committee and Mr Bourlanges for their work . 
Let us not forget that there are raised expectations in terms of the public ' s attitude towards reform of the European institutions . 
It is essential that OLAF is given the appropriate resources . 
I should like to remind the Commission that we will not allow OLAF ' s independence to be compromised by budgetary gains - a little note there for the future . 
I am disappointed that the Council Presidency has not referred to this . 
Are you committed to the extra 75 posts or not ? 
I would be grateful for some kind of feedback on that . 
You need to show the same commitment to fighting fraud as we are within the European Parliament . 
Another issue for the Budgetary Control Committee is the use of technical assistance agencies . 
In its budget guidelines for the year 2000 , Parliament called for the phasing out of the agencies . 
That has not been done . 
It is absolutely right that those appropriations should not be released until the Commission has defined those categories of tasks that need to be outsourced . 
We look forward to receiving that information from the Commission . 
On another matter , in 1999 there have been large under-spends in the Community initiatives , the cohesion fund and many other areas . 
In some cases this is the second or third consecutive year when there has been a large transfer away from particular lines . 
This demonstrates the need for Parliament to monitor budget implementation more closely throughout the year . 
The subject committees must take more responsibility for monitoring the budget lines within those areas . 
If we do that then we can feed that into the budgetary process and make sure that we are more on track during the course of the year . 
Several Members have mentioned the need for measures to prevent discrimination against women in employment policies . 
We should be explicit in the guidelines about the measures that can be implemented like parental benefits , childcare facilities and policies to combat sexual harassment . 
We also need to call on the Member States to do more than promote equal pay . 
The Commission ' s report on the implementation of the employment policies stated that Member States had failed to go beyond token efforts at alleviating gender inequalities . 
Successful mainstreaming requires that the people making policy understand how to implement it effectively . 
So there is a need for training and awareness raising and a better balance of women and men in decision making . 
Research just published in Wales that I represent has shown once again that women are hugely under-represented in management positions at work and do not move up the career ladder as quickly as their qualifications should allow . 
We know this is a typical scenario and it merits specific attention in the guidelines . 
So I would ask Members to support Amendments Nos 37 and 38 which would achieve this . 
Mr President , I would like to congratulate Mrs Avilés Perea on her work . 
The Daphne programme , we should remember , was an initiative of this Parliament in 1997 which recognised the need for action to combat violence against women , young people and children . 
In the first year of the programme alone 428 projects were submitted by various organisations in Europe and this level of response reflected the need for programmes such as this . 
In my own constituency I have seen the work of organisations like Welsh Women ' s Aid which provides support , advice and practical refuge for women and children victims of violence . 
On the issue of the legal base - this is a health issue of course , but it is also far more than that . 
However , we can accept the World Health Organisation ' s definition of health as not just being the absence of disease but a state of physical , mental and social well-being . 
Any lesser definition would leave much of the problem unexposed and we hope that this will be agreed as the European definition for the purpose of this programme . 
The Daphne programme , as others have said , has made a great deal of difference but there is a lot more to be done and it is vital that it is followed up . 
I trust that the Council will decide on this before 1 January so that existing projects can continue . 
- Perhaps I should start with a historical , not current , declaration of interest on why I have voted in favour of Amendment No 5 , Article 1 ( 6 ) , concerning junior doctors . 
My husband , Dr Rhys Jenkins , currently a GP and working restricted hours , has in the past worked in excess of 100 hours a week whilst training to become a doctor . 
I believe that a much delayed and staggered transition such as that proposed by the Council of Ministers is unnecessary and inappropriate . 
In addition there is a particularly acute problem in Wales where the British Medical Association calculates that 30 % of junior doctors are working longer than the recommended 40 hours a week . 
The figure in Scotland by comparison is calculated at 10 % . 
There is a huge problem in terms of recruitment in the profession , and a haemorrhaging of trained doctors to other countries due to the excessive working hours . 
I am very disappointed , and I would ask you to write to the President of the Court of Auditors to express the disappointment of the House . 
Mr President , I welcome the fact that at last , we are discussing this report . 
I was also extremely disappointed that the President of the Court of Auditors did not remain in Brussels earlier this month . 
The report proves beyond all doubt that the reform process is long overdue . 
We need radical reforms if we are to see improvement of a very serious situation . 
This is the fifth time the Commission has not given a statement of assurance and it is clear that the Commission needs to understand that it is engaged in reform and it will be judged not by its words and its reports , but by its actions . 
It is clear that in efforts to reform itself , the Commission needs to concentrate not on where the money is spent but the extent to which policy goals are met , and that with a minimum cost . 
In my own country of Wales we receive significant money from the structural funds , but the line between creating a job and safeguarding a job is unclear and therefore it is difficult for us to assess how effective those structural funds have been . 
The Commission needs to make fundamental improvements to its own internal control mechanisms . 
One of the main problems , highlighted again , is that of passing the buck . 
Nobody is taking responsibility and the responsibility for spending money well is shared between too many people . 
That clearly needs to be reformed . 
But let us not forget that over 85 % of the money that comes from the EU budget is spent within the Member States and they need to put their own house in order . 
Human resources is also an issue which clearly needs to be addressed . 
The new Commission is heading in the right direction and we hope that we will see an end to these kinds of reports . 
We can put them behind us once we see an improvement in terms of the reform process . 
But there is no room at all for complacency . 
We are a long way from achieving our goals . 
The Commission 's original proposal is along the right lines . 
But let us not forget why the Commission was forced to resign : fraud and mismanagement , those were the main points . 
That is why this year 's budget really had to reflect the need to tighten up procedures for budget control ; and as the rapporteur for the 2000 budget , and on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control , I would like to welcome once again the establishment of the new body to fight fraud and the new OLAF posts reflected in this year 's budget . 
The process of appointing the OLAF director is now well advanced . 
The Committee on Budgetary Control held hearings with the candidates and produced a shortlist of three people , and I understand that tonight there will be a meeting to try to thrash out a decision between the representatives of the European Parliament , the Council and the Commission . 
Let us not forget that the technical assistance offices were also a big problem in the forced resignation of the Commission . 
The Commission 's strategic issues paper adopted on 10 December concluded that core public service tasks should not be outsourced and that the Commission should have at its disposal a much more flexible set of arrangements for non-core public service tasks . 
That is something with which I wholeheartedly agree . 
The Commission now performs such a wide variety of diverse functions that non-core public service tasks could be carried out in very many different ways . 
There is no point in having a one-size-fits-all model for carrying out such tasks . 
What we need to do is to reform the Staff Regulations so we can have flexibility in hiring contractual staff to service these offices . 
Mr President , under the Treaties , Parliament has the right to be consulted on the appointment of members of the Court of Auditors . 
The Committee on Budgetary Control held hearings on 22 and 23 November and adopted by secret ballot a favourable opinion on each of the candidates . 
However I was disappointed , like Mrs Stauner , that we had very few members who were women . 
Of the eight candidates put forward by the Council only one was a woman . 
I would therefore appeal to the Member States to put their own house in order . 
I would also like to make some broader points about the composition of the Court of Auditors . 
In the same way that the Commission and Parliament can not be allowed to grow indefinitely , neither can the Court . 
The role of the Court is to examine all Community revenue and expenditure to see whether it has been spent in a lawful and regular manner and whether financial management has been sound . 
I see no reason why that role needs to be carried out by Member State appointees . 
There is a danger that Member States ' appointees may still feel some loyalty to their national capitals and may be seen as trying to water down criticisms of their own Member States . 
What is needed is a court that is , and is seen to be , independent of Member States ' interests . 
Ultimately that should mean a system where we appoint proper , qualified auditors to the Court . 
The events of the past year make it all the more important that we have a Court able to make criticisms where necessary , both of the Commission and of Member States , which , after all , are responsible for the management of about 85 % of the funds . 
Madam President , the political groups are agreed on the main question here , as are those of us in the Committee on Women 's Rights . 
The `` Beijing plus five '' Conference is of major importance and the European Union has to be very well prepared to take part in the most effective way possible if it is going to have the impact that we want . 
As a Parliament , we owe that to all women in the European Union and beyond - in fact throughout the world - in view of all the commitments that were made before Beijing and following it . 
We need very clear guarantees that we , as Members of Parliament , will be fully involved and be taken seriously in the planning of the pre-conference before the New York meeting . 
As Members of Parliament we are the direct democratic link with the people of the European Union , and the Committee on Women 's Rights itself is a direct link with many women 's organisations and representatives . 
As was said earlier , the preparations for Seattle were a good example of the way this could be done , and I hope we will achieve this . 
Mr President , every time we hear in this Parliament about the denial of basic human rights , like the right to vote or the right to stand for election , it should serve to strengthen our own resolve to promote and improve democracy in all parts of the world . 
So , although the vote of the Kuwaiti National Assembly on 30 November to deny those very rights to women in Kuwait was a deep disappointment , it offers some hope for the future . 
They have set the 2003 general and municipal elections as their target for the first time that women will ever vote in Kuwait . 
They are going to put forward a women 's rights bill every year in the National Assembly until they succeed in doing that . 
While we condemn the decision of the Kuwaiti National Assembly on 30 November it is also important for us to use our elected positions as parliamentarians to encourage and support those who want to bring about change . 
It was not until 1928 that all women in the United Kingdom got the right to vote . 
Only Kuwait extended the vote to men and not to women . 
While it is difficult for most of us even to comprehend this kind of system , we have a responsibility to the people working there to support them in every way we can . 
Mr President , I echo the sentiments of the two previous speakers in wholeheartedly welcoming this motion unequivocally to condemn the appalling human rights record of the Taliban regime in Afghanistan , and in particular the persecution of Afghan women in the name of religion and culture . 
Women have borne the brunt of tragedy in Afghanistan through years of war . 
They have suffered a multitude of human rights abuses : rape , sexual assault , forced marriages and prostitution . 
The intimidation of women has been used as a means of dishonouring and dehumanising entire communities . 
Since the Taliban regime took over in 1996 , the plight of Afghan women has continued . 
A barbaric social code has been imposed , based on intimidation , humiliation and coercion of a female population that has been stripped of all its fundamental human rights . 
For Afghan women freedom of expression , freedom of employment , freedom to attend health and family-planning courses , access to education , all those things as we know them simply do not exist . 
Yet it was not until 15 October this year that the European Council took action on an air embargo and a freeze on funds to the Taliban . 
That was not as a result of the apartheid-style policies of the regime vis-à-vis women , but as the result of the Taliban protection of Mr Bin Laden . 
Nevertheless , I believe that this action should continue until the unacceptable discrimination against women in Afghanistan comes to an end . 
It may be a small part , but we certainly have a responsibility as a Parliament to play some part in bringing this regime and its inhumane policies to an end . 
